What is Call / Put option date? [SEP] Call / Put option date is the date on which issuer or investor can exercise their rights to redeem the security.
-2023 Change / Correction in Name / Address correction. [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC-compliant folio and if there is a change of name :Kindly fill and submit Form ISR-1, and Form ISR-2 duly filled and attested by the Bank manager along with the original canceled cheque leaf bearing the name of the first holder is mandatory, failing which the security holder shall submit a copy of the bank passbook/statement attested by the Bank. The attestation shall contain the employee code and Bank seal. Self-attested copy of the PAN card with the new name and supporting documents with the original securities certificate(s) is required;i. For Individuals, consequent to marriage / divorce / attaining majority:1. Legible copy of the documents mentioned below, in respect of each name change, duly attested by Notary Public / Bank Manager / First Class Magistrate. Attestation by Notary Public / First Class Magistrate should mention their name, full address, and registration number and affix their seal, and Notarial / Court Fee stamps, as applicable. Attestation by Bank Manager should bear the name, full address, and official stamp of the bank.The name on the documents submitted should be the same as that on the securities.Marriage- Legally recognized Marriage Certificate / Government Gazette or copy of valid Passport showing the husband's nameDivorce- Divorce DecreeAttaining Majority-Birth Certificate / School Leaving Certificate2. Original certificates for the securities.3. Application Form for Transmission duly completed and signed by the holder(s) whose signature(s) should be attested by his/their Bank Manager under his name, full address, and official stamp of the bank.4. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the holder(s).5.. Any other document evidencing the old name as per the document list.ii. For Individuals other than marriage: Publication of name change in the official gazette, and any document evidencing the old name as per Annexure-E__Read__more__iii. For Corporates consequent to change in name of the Company:For securities held in physical form, please submit the following:-1. Letter duly signed by the authorized signatory/trustee supported by the certified true copy of the documents mentioned below in respect of:-For Corporate Body:Certificate of Incorporation along with Memorandum and Articles of Association.The Board Resolution signed by the Company Secretary/Directors on the letterhead of the Company empowering the signatories to sign on behalf of the Company along with the specimen signatures of the Authorized Signatories is also to be submitted.-For Trust:Certificate of Registration along with the Trust Deed.The Resolution signed by the Secretary/Trustee on the letterhead of the Trust empowering the signatories to sign on behalf of the Trust along with the specimen signatures of the Authorized Signatories is also to be submitted.-For Society:Certificate of Registration along with their Bye Laws/ Rules & Regulations. The Resolution signed by the Secretary/Trustee on the letterhead of the Society empowering the signatories to sign on behalf of the Society along with the specimen signatures of the Authorized Signatories is also to be submitted.2. Original certificates for the securities.3. Application Form for Transmission duly completed and signed by the Authorized Signatories.4. Certified true copy of PAN Card of the first-named holder, Individual/ Corporate Body/ Trust/ Trustees/Society as the case may be.In case a change in address for corporates is to be noted, the request to this effect should be supported by the certified true copy of Form No.18 / INC 22 filed with the Registrar of Companies for change in the registered office address.(needed only if the address of the Company has changed)__Read__more__ Documents required :Any Onea.Self-attested copy of any 1 of the following documents issued by a Government authority:  b. Client Master List (CML) of your demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, which has to be attested by your DP.c. Valid Passport / Registered Lease (notarised) or Sale Agreement of Residence/Driving License/Flat Maintenance Bill*d. Utility bills like telephone bills (only landline), electricity bills or gas bills (not more than 3 months old)e. Identity Card with photo/document with address, issued by Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory/Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionsf. For FII/subaccount, Power of Attorney given by FII/subaccount to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address.g. Proof of address in the name of the spouse self-attested with the date and identity proof of the holder/claimanth. Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) i. any other document as required __Read__more__Apart from what is stated above, if you have not updated your KYC in the physical folio, held by you in the company, then1)   A request letter explaining the reason for the mismatch in the name. (All KYC documents as mentioned below should be in the NEW name along with proof of anyone ID in the old name).Pl check “Annexure E” for acceptable documents in the old name. 2) Form ISR-1  is dully filled in all respects.3) Self-attested copy of Pan card with the correct name.4) Self-attested copy of any one of the documents mentioned below as proof of address:Aadhaar Card, Valid Passport, Utility bills like Telephone Bills, Electricity bills & Gas Bills not more than 3 months old.   5) Form ISR-2 duly filled and attested by the bank manager along with the original canceled cheque leaf for all the registered security holders. Also note the original canceled cheque leaf bearing the name of the first holder is mandatory, failing which the first security holder shall submit a copy of the bank passbook/statement attested by the Bank for registering the Bank Account details. Note: All the details on the banker verification form need to be completely filled in (i.e., the date of opening the account, details of the person attesting the signature, etc.)6) Original certificate/s for the entire holding.__Read__more__For Change or Correction in Address:For KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:A written request for change in address in Form ISR-1, duly signed by the first holder as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company /RTA and supporting documents as indicated herein:Self-attested copy of any 1 of the following documents issued by a Government authority:a. Valid Passport / Registered Lease or Sale Agreement of Residence / Driving License / Flat Maintenance bill.b. Utility bills like Telephone Bill (only landline), Electricity bill or Gas bill - Not more than 3 months old.c. Identity card/document with address, issued by any of the following: Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory / Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionsd. For FII / sub-account, Power of Attorney given by FII / sub-account to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address should be taken.e. Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the holder/claimant, provided by the Depository Participant.f. If proof of address is in the name of the spouse, please provide a self-attested copy of the Identity Proof of the holder/claimant.g. Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) If you are claiming your shares or dividend from IEPF then, old address proof is also Mandatory, as per prevailing IEPF norms.The hard copy of the above documents is required to be sent to: Focus AddressFor securities held in electronic form, the change in details has to be registered with your depository participant. Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.Note: If your Folio is not KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process any service request.For Name correction in the physical certificate, you should forward the duly signed Form ISR-4 along with the original certificate(s) and a self-attested copy of the PAN with the date, and kindly courier/post the same to us, at the following address:Focus Address
-2023 View/Download Fillable-Transmission/Name Deletion form [SEP] View/Download -Fillable-Application form for Name Deletion/Transmission / Transposition
-2023 Exchange of Share Certificate [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:For the exchange of certificates on account of a scheme of merger/amalgamation/capital reduction or change in FV, or on account of torn or defaced certificates, the security holder shall issue a request letter duly signed as per the specimen signature registered with the company/RTA, containing basic essentials of the shareholder such as Company Name, Folio Num, Name(s) of the Shareholder's and shall complete the following processes:we request you to fill in all the information as desired in Form ISR-4 along with a self-certified copy of PAN of the first-named holder of securities along with the original securities certificates to the office of RTA situated at,Focus Address__Read__more__Hence, upon surrender of the old share certificates of the company, we shall issue a Letter of Credit (LOC) as per the Client Master List (CML) provided to us.If you do not have the old certificate, you can write to us with the request letter signed by the shareholder/s, with a self-attested copy of the PAN, for the procedure to issue of duplicate. Once the procedure for duplicate issuance is complied with from your end, we will then proceed to issue the LOC as per the CML provided.Null and Void Scheme:Please note that pursuant to the scheme of merger/amalgamation announced by the company, shareholders were allotted shares in the new entity in a predefined ratio, announced by the company.The new share certificates were already dispatched to all the shareholders as of the record date, without having to surrender the old certificates., under the Null and Void scheme. You would have received the same. However, if you have not received the same, kindly write back to us with a self–attested copy of your PAN, for further details and for the procedure of issuance of duplicate.Note: If your Folio is not KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process any service request:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder. Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.For the exchange of physical certificates, you should forward the duly signed Form ISR-4 along with the original certificate and a self-attested copy of the PAN of the first holder with the date, and kindly courier/post the same to us, at the following address;Focus Address
-2023 Non receipt of Certificates [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceThe certificate may not have been received by you due to any of the below reasons:-1). The certificate was dispatched but could not be delivered to your address due to either an incomplete address or returned undelivered as the door was locked or no such person was at the address.2). The dispatch of certificates may be held back due to reasons like Non-completion of KYC (Know your customer), Incomplete address, or stop mark recorded against the folio.Alternatively, you may also contact us at the following address or email id:Focus AddressEmail-R-T__Read__more__Please write to us with the details of the company and folio number with a copy of your self-attested PAN CARD, for us to check and revert to you. If your folio, is not KYC compliant, do visit our website and complete forms related to -> KYC-Formats.For Non-Receipt of securities certificate on account of Replacement/Renewal/Exchange of certificate/Split in face value of shares, we request you to comply with Form -ISR4 and complete forms related to -> KYC-Formats. Important points to be noted:  The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the request letter submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC. Note: If your Folio is not KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process any service request.
Are all the bonds / Debenture are secured ? [SEP] The investor is requested to find the details in the Prospectus / Information memorandum whether they are issued as secured or unsecured. 
Can I have the Contact Centre E-mail and Tel-Number. [SEP] Email-R-TEmail-BondsEmail-Public-Issues
Can I withdraw my money invested in bonds anytime before maturity? [SEP] For Listed bonds, If you want to sell them before maturity, you can do so in the secondary market at market price(market price may vary from par-value). For Private placement requested to refer the offer document of the Issuer
From where can I get specific details about the Terms of Issue of the debentures I hold? [SEP] The issuers compiles the terms of Issue for every series / issue of the debentures / bonds. Investors can refer to the terms of the issue from the offer documents posted by the issuer on their website or write to the issuer directly.
How can I convert my electronic holding into paper form? [SEP] An investor can choose to reconvert his electronic holding into physical form at any time through his DP. However, some companies issue securities in Demat mode only. Hence physical certificates are not issued. Investors are requested to refer the offer document before submission of debenture certificates for Remat.
How can I update the Bank Details in my securities held in physical form ? [SEP] For securities held in physical mode complete Form ISR-1 duly signed by the holder(s) stating the details of the Folio nos. / Name of the company, and other details along with;(i) bank details (Bank account number, Bank and Branch Name and address, pin code & IFSC, MICR details),(ii) self-attested copy of the PAN card and(iii) original canceled cheque leaf.Alternatively, Client Master List (CML) with bank details to update the same, to be sent toEmail-R-TFor dematerialized holdings, please reach out to your Depository Participant, by submitting the requisite forms/documents to your DP
How do Bonds give higher returns than FDs? Is there any risk involved? [SEP] FD rates are lower than bond interest rates. Banks have to maintain CRR(Cash Reserve Ratio) as per regulations laid down by the central bank. The banks have to reserve a portion of capital received via FDs; the entire capital cannot be lent. This reserved capital can be utilized to supply closures (or pre-closures) in FD. Such constraints are not there on banks on the capital that is raised via bonds.Read moreAlso, only a fixed amount of funds can be raised by a particular Bond tranche'. So the interest to be paid on this fund amount remains fixed and quantifiable to the Bond issuer. Also, to elicit investor interest to invest in Bonds, the issuer keeps the Bond rates higher than Bank FD rates. For FDs, there is no limit to the amount of deposits that a bank can take. Being able to service high-interest rates on such ever-growing deposit rates is financially non-viable. Given these reasons, Bonds can offer better returns than Bank FDs.
How do I convert my paper certificates into an electronic holding and will I continue to receive Interest? [SEP] To dematerialize your holding, you should first open an account with a Depository Participant (DP) of your choice. You may then hand over to your DP, the certificates along with the 'Dematerialisation Request Form' (DRF). Only the securities registered in your name can be submitted for dematerialization. Your DP will then send the DRF and the certificates to us and an electronic request will also be sent through the depository network reconfirming the same. We will verify the documents and if found in order, the dematerialization request will be confirmed to the Depository who will in turn inform your DP. In the books of the Company, your folio with us will be debited and the account of Depository will be credited in respect of such dematerialized securities.Read moreThe Depository in their electronic records will credit the account of your DP who will then credit your account with the number of securities that have been dematerialized and the securities will thereafter be held in electronic form. The interest will be issued to the beneficial owners i.e. the accountholders who hold the securities in electronic form as on the Record date identified by the Issues. The interest amounts, when issued, will be credited to your bank directly as per the Bank details updated with your DP.
How do I Record Change of Address for Securities held in physical mode ? [SEP] For securities held in Physical Form, you are requested to complete the details as mentioned in Form ISR-1, duly signed by the holders(s) of the securities, quoting the folio number, and name of the company, and providing the new address with pin code along with any one document listed below should be sent toEmail-R-T For processing the request for change of address or address is not available in the folio, then the RTA shall obtain the following documents:Valid Passport / Registered Lease or Sale Agreement of Residence / Driving License / Flat Maintenance bill where additional self-attested copy of identity proof of the holder/claimant may be obtained to process the request;Read moreUtility bills like Telephone Bills (only landline), Electricity bills, or Gas bills - Not more than 3 months old;Identity card/document with address, issued by any of the following: Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory / Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, and Public Financial Institutions;For FII / sub-account, Power of Attorney given by FII / sub-account to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address will be accepted. Proof of address in the name of the spouse where an additional self-attested copy of identity proof of the holder/claimant may be obtained to process the request;To avoid rejection kindly ensure to sign Form ISR-1 as per specimen signatures registered with the company.Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the holder/claimant, provided by the Depository Participant.In case you are holding the shares in Demat form, the request for a change of address should be addressed to your DP only.
How do I Register Tax forms such as Form 15G/H? [SEP] You are requested to visit our website and select the option Tax Exemptions Registration.The companies which are presently availing online facilities for submission of Tax Exemptions forms shall be available in the said option. Select the desired Company and fill up the necessary information and upload the duly completed Tax Exemption forms, signed by the investor. Kindly quote the DP/CL or Folio number on top of the form, for ease of reference.In the event the said company is not available for online submission of tax forms, kindly courier the same to the office of RTA/company the duly filled tax form(s)Focus AddressEmail-R-T
How do I transfer physical securities? [SEP] As per the SEBI regulations, if one holds shares in the physical form, he/she would not be able to transfers the securities in physical form and the Company shall not process such request unless the securities are held in the dematerialized form with a depository. Should you wish to transfer, we request you to get the physical shares dematerialized.
How do I transmit securities held in demat mode? [SEP] For securities held in Demat mode, please contact your depository participant.
How redemption amount will be paid upon maturity of bonds.? [SEP] Redemption notice is sent to the investor by email / physical letter intimating upcoming redemption and requesting to check the address and bank details available in the records of the RTA and update the same in case of any change prior to a pre-fixed cut-off date. All such requests received for updation received prior to the cut-off date will be processed and the payments will be made as per the updated details.
I am the legal heir in respect of the sole holder who is now deceased. How do I transmit the securities held in physical mode? [SEP] If the bonds were held in the sole name of the deceased bondholder the same can be transmitted in the names of maximum three joint legal heirs. With the introduction of Form-ISR-4, transmission of physical securities shall be done only in demat form, thereby legal heirs are requested to quote their demat account, or open one for the purpose of transmission.Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : ( Form ISR-5  ]  duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities whose value exceeds Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:The value shall be ascertained: on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission.__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with,:(i) Notarized Indemnity Bond- As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s); andï»¿(ii) No Objection from all the Non-Claimants (remaining legal heirs)- As per the format specified and provided in Annexure F:stating that they have relinquished their rights to claim for transmission of securities, duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer.For securities whose value does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) and the  documents as mentioned in point 9 are not available such as:__Read__more__ Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority.The legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer. Name and full address of the attesting authority for Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, notarial /court fee stamps and mention the registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization on Affidavit and Indemnity. Affidavit/Indemnity to be purchased in the name of holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed before the Notary Public/Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same. The Company shall issue a Letter of Credit upon successful execution of the above documents. For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant.
If the Physical holding is in joint names and either of the holders is deceased, what is the procedure for deletion of name? [SEP] The procedure to be followed for deletion of name in the records is as below: Letter duly signed by the surviving joint holder(s), along with Form ISR-4. Original bond certificates for the entire holding to enable deletion. Annex a duly attested copy of the death certificate of the deceased bondholder, either by a Notary Public or by a Special Executive Officer. Furnish us with a letter from the Bank Manager of the bank where you have an account, identifying you and attesting your signature along with your account details as per Form ISR-2.Read moreAnnex a self-attested copy of the PAN card of surviving bondholders Provide us, a copy of any one document each from (a) & (b) below, duly attested by Special Executive Officer or Notary Public or Your Bank Manager. Driving Licence or Passport or Election Card Ration Card or Latest Electricity Bill or Telephone Bill or Employer's TDS certificate in Form 16 Lodge your request after complying with the abovementioned requirements, after which we will take up the process further.
I have applied for debenture in physical mode but I have not received the debenture certificate yet, what should I do? [SEP] The certificate would not have been received by you due to any of the below reasons:- It has been dispatched but could not be delivered to your address due to either incomplete address or it is returned undelivered as door is locked or no such person at the address. The dispatch of certificates is held back due to reasons like Non completion of KYC (Know your customer), Incomplete address. For such cases please contact the RTA at the address/ Phone Nos. / email id mentioned on our website.
I have old certificates? How do I exchange with new certificate? [SEP] For exchange of certificates on account of capital reduction or change in FV, or on account of torn or defaced certificates, kindly write back to us for share-related certificates to Email-R-T and for bonds related to Email-Bonds
is any one availble on chat? [SEP] Presently the IDIA Chatbot service is automated, and there is no human involved. The facility to chat with an agent is coming soon.
Is there a lock-in period for Bond? Can I withdraw my money invested in bonds anytime before maturity? [SEP] Bonds are 100% tradable securities. This means that there is no lock-in on your bond investment. If you want to sell them before maturity, you can do so in the secondary market at market price(market price may vary from par-value).
I want to know the details of Interest /Maturity payments paid to me on the debentures held by me. Where should I enquire? [SEP] You can view your interest details on the Issuer Companies website. Alternatively you can contact us on the below: Email-Bonds 
I want to talk to an agent / contact center [SEP] We are in the process to launch this facility, till then kindly contact us on the following:Focus AddressEmail-R-T
The interest amount received by me is lower than what I received earlier month, why is it so? [SEP] The difference in amount could be because of the day count convention or as per the terms of the offer document.  Please refer to the offer Document of the Issuer for more details. Alternatively you may write to:Email-BondsFocus Address
What are bonds and debentures? [SEP] Bonds and debentures are debt investment instruments with a Fixed Rate of Return and Fixed Maturity Period. While Bonds are securities that are mostly issued by the government, debentures are always issued by corporations. Bonds and Debentures are issued by these entities to raise money from investors as loans used to fulfill business objectives like entering new markets, starting a new project, or scaling existing businesses. For every bond/debenture issue, fixed interest payments (Coupons) are made regularly on pre-specified dates. The principal loan amount(face value per unit of Bond/ Debenture) is paid back on the pre-specified maturity date.
What are the differences between Bonds and Debt Mutual Fund? [SEP] Bonds are debt securities issued by entities like corporates or government organizations for a predefined duration. Debt Mutual Funds are Mutual Funds that invest in debt securities such as Bonds, Debentures, Commercial Papers, and other Fixed Income Securities. Debt MFs are an indirect way of investing in Bonds. For fixed investment needs, it is always better to invest in Bonds than Debt MFs.
What is a Bond? [SEP] Bond is an instrument showing the indebtedness of the borrower (issuer company) to an investor evidencing the investment. A bondholder is a creditor of the issuer and not a shareholder. 
What is a Bond / Debenture ? [SEP] A Bond / Debenture is a debt instrument where the issuer of the security agrees to repay the investor, the amount borrowed and interest, over a specified period of time.
WHAT IS BOND MARKET? [SEP] The bond market is a financial market where debt securities are issued and traded. The issuers sell bonds or other debt instruments in the bond market to fund the operations of their organizations.
What is customer care number? [SEP] You are requested to write to us / get in touch on the followingFocus AddressEmail-R-T
What is Day count convention? [SEP] Day count convention refers to the norm for considering the days for which the interest is computed. Interest is normally computed on a 365 days a year basis on the principal outstanding on the NCDs. However, if period from the Deemed Date of Allotment / Anniversary date of Allotment till one day prior to the next anniversary / redemption date includes February 29, interest shall be computed on 366 days a-year basis, on the principal outstanding on the NCDs. It is highlighted that each Issuer may have a different norm for ascertaining the day count convention. Investors are advised to refer to the relevant Offer Document of the Debentures to know the specific details.
What is Face value of a Bond / Debenture ? [SEP] Face Value (FV) is also known as the par value or principal value. Coupon (interest) is calculated on the face value of a bond. FV is the price of the bond, which is agreed by the issuer to pay to the investor on the maturity date.
What is Maturity date? [SEP] The maturity date is the date on which the principal and due interest amount are paid to the bondholder by the issuer. The maturity date defines the lifespan of the bond. The bondholder is entitled to receive interest payouts till the date of maturity. After the maturity date, the contractual obligation of the bond issuer gets terminated. ”Call Date” and “ Maturity Date” are mentioned in the term sheet.
What is Maturity / Redemption Value? [SEP] Maturity / Redemption Value is the amount paid by issuer on the Maturity date other than coupon payment is called redemption value.
What is the difference between a Bond and a Debenture ? [SEP] Debenture is a long-term security yielding a fixed rate of interest issued by a company. These can be secured by the assets of the company or unsecured.   A bond is an instrument yielding a fixed interest income generally issued by a government organization. However, these two terms and generally interchanged in common parlance. 
What is the difference between buyback and redemption ? [SEP] Buyback is an early exit option to redeem the bonds after a particular period but prior to the maturity of the bonds. If the option to redeem the bonds prior to the maturity date is available with the Issuer, it is called call option. If the option is available with the investor, it is called a put option 
What is the relevance of Record date? [SEP] Payment of Interest is made to those NCD holders whose names appear in the register of Debenture Holders (or to first holder in case of joint-holders) as on a Record Date.
What should I do to receive interest payments in Electronic mode (NECS / Direct credit /NEFT / RTGS ) [SEP] If you are holding in Demat mode you should get your Bank details including 9 digit MICR and the IFSC code updated with your Depository participant or if you hold securities in physical mode you can forward the request letter duly signed, along with Original Cancelled Cheque to us, at the addressFocus AddressAlternatively, the Bank details registration format such as Form ISR-2 can also be downloaded from our website.
Why am I receiving my Interest in physical mode ? [SEP] Interest is paid in physical mode in case incomplete Bank details are registered with your Depository participant if you hold securities in Demat mode or if the securities are held in physical mode, and your folio is still not KYC compliant.
Why should I choose bonds over fixed deposits? [SEP] Bonds and FDs are both low-risk securities. Still, you should choose Bonds over Fixed Deposits because :Bonds provide higher interest returns than FDs.Bonds are tradable, but FDs are not.Bonds can satisfy various financial requirements like generating a regular income stream, savings tax on interest income, savings tax in capital gains, etc. FDs offer no such facility.
Why should I invest in Bonds? [SEP] Here are a few points that justify why you should consider investing in Bonds.Bonds provide a fixed returnBonds are unaffected by the market fluctuationsBonds give higher returns than FDsThe perceived level of risk in Bonds is low. In fact, it's lower than that of Debt Mutual Funds
Why should I invest in the Fixed Income Market (Bonds and Debentures)? [SEP] Bonds’ fixed income market can provide investors returns as high as 9 - 10% per annum or more.Investments in Bonds and Debentures are more rewarding and reliable mode of growing your money than the existing options of fixed deposits and mutual funds. Moreover, you get the additional benefits of minimum to low risk (for AAA to A Bonds), capital growth, earning a regular income, tax-free income, and tax-saving options available in this investment segment.
Why would I receive interest payment in physical mode although I have furnished Bank details with my Depository participant (for electronic holdings) and the RTA for physical holdings? [SEP] This could be due to any of the following reasons: MICR code not updated IFSC code not updated Incorrect account number updated. Bank name and branch missing.
ADDITIONAL TIER I BONDS (AT1 BONDS) [SEP] Tier I Bonds also called Perpetual Bonds. As per BASEL III norms, theoretically, these bonds can be carried on till infinity. In reality, they come with a call option after 5 years or 10 years from the date of issuance. It is a popular option among Banks to raise capital to meet their core capital (Tier1 capital) needs as instructed by RBI.This category carries considerable risk and hence pays high-interest rates to investors. The issuer can skip interest payments if the current year business is in the loss. In dire conditions, it can get converted to equity (with approval from RBI). Hence they are also called “quasi-equity”. If RBI approves it can be written off up to the full value as well (with approval from RBI).Note: In case of winding up of the issuer, if any payment is to be made to Tier I capital holders, AT I bondholders are paid before equity holders. However, in case the Bank is getting merged with another Bank due to its non-viable business state, then AT1 Bonds can be written off fully while keeping the equity capital unaffected.
Can there be any risk in Bond Investment? [SEP] Considering the Risk Pyramid, Bonds fall into the category of low-risk securities just like Fixed Deposits. There are a couple of risks involved.Default risk: The loss that an investor faces when issuer defaults(fail to return principal amount or Interest payments or both)Liquidity risk: This loss comes into picture only when an investor wants to sell bonds before maturity. This loss is incurred by the investor when he/she finds no buyer for their bonds and hence sells them at a discount.Read moreInterest-rate Risk: If interest rates increase, the price of the Bond decreases. At this time, the investor wants to sell the bonds he/she has to sell at a discount price. However, the flip side is that, if the interest rates in the economy decrease, bonds’ selling price will increase. At such a time, an investor can make capital gains by selling his bonds at a premium to his buy price.
Comparison with Fixed income instruments - Bonds vs. PPF vs. FDs vs. ETF. [SEP] Here are a few Fixed Income Instruments.Bonds: They are pure fixed-income investment options. They come with a fixed annual return and fixed maturity period.Public Provident Fund: PPF is a saving scheme offered by the Central Government.Fixed Deposits:These instruments are offered by banks and non-banking financial organizations that return fixed interests.Exchange-Traded Funds:ETFs consist of a set of underlying securities and manage market fluctuation. They have passively managed funds and have low volatility.Read moreAll fixed income instruments fall into the category of low-risk instruments. ETFs have no maturity and have low volatility. The maximum amount that can be invested in PPF is 1.5 lakhs. FDs are not tradable.Whereas Bonds have fixed maturity, there is no limit on investment amount and are tradable.
INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES IDENTIFICATION NUMBER [SEP] International Securities Identification Number(ISIN) is the universally recognizable unique code given to securities. The respective country’s National Numbering Agency provides ISIN. In India, SEBI has assigned ISIN’s responsibility to the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL). RBI regulates NSDL. ISIN consists of 12 alphanumeric digits: the first two digits represent the country’s code, the next nine digits are computer-generated security code, and the last digit is the check number. ISIN helps in preventing counterfeiting and forgery.
What are NCDs? Explain the difference between Bonds and NCDs. [SEP] NCD stands for Non-Convertible Debentures. NCDs are debt instruments that provide fixed returns. NCDs are issued by Corporates to raise capital.NCDs and Bonds are both debt instruments that return fixed income to the investor. The few differences between NCDs and Bonds are listed below.Read moreNCDs are issued by Corporates, whereas Bonds are issued by Government entities.In most cases, NCDs offer a higher interest rate than Bonds and are secured while NCDs can be secured or unsecured.Bonds are considered senior debt securities; hence during liquidation, bondholders are paid first and then debenture holders.
What are the different types of Bonds? [SEP] Here is the list of different types of Bonds available.Government bonds: Government bonds are issued by the Central Government. They are also known as Government Securities or ‘'GSecs’.’ These Bonds carry the highest level of safety guaranteed by the Central Government and hence do not carry any credit rating.Read moreState Bonds: The various States issues state Bonds in India. The States raise money via this Bond route regularly. These Bonds are called ‘State Development Loans’ or SDLs. Like GSecs, they are also perceived to be of the highest safety level and hence do not carry any credit rating.Municipal Bonds:Municipal Bonds are issued by local or state-level government agencies to fund development activities like city development, urban transportation, healthcare infrastructure, etc. These Bonds are popularly called as ‘Muni Bonds.’Read morePublic Sector Bonds: Public Sector Bonds are issued by organizations where the government holds more than 50% ownership. Example: NHAI, REC, ONGC, etc.Corporate Bonds:The large corporations and financial institutions issue these bonds to capitalize on their business operations. They are rated by various credit rating agencies based on the risk profile of the bonds.Taxable Bonds: All Corporate Bonds fall into this category. The interest income earned from investments in these Bonds is taxed as per the investor’s income tax slab.Tax-Free Bonds:The PSU units issue Tax-Free Bonds. The interest income earned from investment in these Bonds is 100% tax exempted.
WHAT DOES BASIS POINTS (BPS) MEAN? [SEP] One Basis Point(BPS) is equal to 1/100th of 1%. It is a standard unit of measurement used to indicate a change in bond yield or percentages in the bond market. Small changes in yield or interest rates make a huge impact. Measuring and expressing such minute changes in the market is essential, and the same is done in terms of BPS.
WHAT DOES  CREDIT RATING MEAN FOR BONDS? [SEP] A credit rating is an evaluation of the credit risk of a prospective debtor, predicting their ability to pay back the debt, and an implicit forecast of the likelihood of the debtor defaulting.
What does the term Bond Duration mean? [SEP] Bond Duration measures the percentage change in a Bond’s price with a 1% change in its yield level. For example, if a Bond has a duration of 5 years, then it means that for a 1% change in its yield, the Bond price will change by 5%.Say Bond Price is 100, Bond Yield is 6%, and Bond Duration is 5 years.Case 1 : Yield increase : +1% , Bond Price : 95Case 2: Yield decrease: -1%, Bond Price: 105Read moreAs you can see, bonds with higher duration values will be more susceptible to large price changes when their yields change due to changes in market interest rates.Note: Bond Price and market interest levels are inversely related. When interest rates fall, bond prices rise. When interest rates rise in the market, bond prices fall.
WHAT IS ACCRUED INTEREST? [SEP] This is the interest earned by an investor for a given period of time,The bond issuer pays the bondholder a fixed interest on a predetermined schedule. However, if a bond were sold between its interest payment dates, the purchaser would have to pay the market price of the bond plus the appropriate fraction of the accrued coupon interest earned but not yet received by the party selling the bond.Example: A has a 1 unit of a Bond with a face value of Rs 1 Lac and a coupon rate of 10% (payable annually). Every year A receives Rs 10 K from the issuer on a specific date. Then, after 6 months from one such payment, A sells this Bond to B. B then has to pay Rs 5K as an accrued interest to A along with the principal value of the Bond to A.
What is BOND CONVEXITY? [SEP] The measure of the change in the bond duration for every 1% change in the market interest rates is called the Bond Convexity.There can be an accelerated change in bond price with a change in the interest rate in the market. As an example, say 1% change in the market interest rate causes the Bond price to change by x% then 2% change in the interest levels, may cause the Bond price to change by more than 2X. It’s not a linear relationship. This measure, called convexity, helps understand and predict bond price movements in the market with fluctuating interest rate regimes.Note: There are different kinds of bond durations. The bond duration that we are discussing here is called”Modified Bond Duration.”Bonds with a positive convexity gain a higher price with a fall in yields than an increase in yields. Bonds with negative convexity lose a greater price with an increase in yields than a fall in yield. The higher the Convexity, the higher will be the market risk.
WHAT IS BRICKWORK RATINGS MEAN? [SEP] Brickwork Ratings is a SEBI registered credit rating agency that has also been accredited by RBI and impaneled by NSIC. Brickworks has rated issues of a large number of banks including SBI, Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Canada Bank, Corporation Bank, Punjab National Bank, Andhra Bank, and many others.
WHAT IS CONSIDERATION AMOUNT IN BOND? [SEP] The loan amount or principal paid by the bond investor is a consideration, in exchange for the borrower or bond issuing company’s promise to repay the principal and interest as per the agreed clauses.
WHAT IS PAR-VALUE AND MARKET PRICE FOR BONDS? [SEP] Par value is the price at which the Bond issuer issues a Bond unit. Par value is also called the face value. When a bond matures, the Bond issuer returns back the face value of the bond to the bondholder along with any outstanding interest payment.The interest payouts are also calculated based on the par value of the bond. However, bonds need not be traded at par value; it can vary from par value. The price at which bonds are traded between buyers and sellers is called market price. Par value of the bond is always fixed: par value is one of the characteristics of bonds that define bonds as “fixed income instrument.”Read moreThe interest payouts are also calculated based on the par value of the bond. However, bonds need not be traded at par value; it can vary from par value. The price at which bonds are traded between buyers and sellers is called market price. Par value of the bond is always fixed: par value is one of the characteristics of bonds that define bonds as “fixed income instrument.”
WHAT IS PRIMARY MARKET? [SEP] The Capital market where companies or governments directly issue securities (debt-based or equity-based) to raise funds is called Primary Market. In the primary market, the issuer sells securities at predetermined prices. The buyers in the market can be financial institutions, corporates, mutual funds, and individuals.Consider this market as the place where the security is being sold for the first time to buyers.
WHAT IS SECONDARY MARKET? [SEP] The secondary market is the capital market where securities are traded among investors. Trading can happen between Financial institutions, individual investors, or both. The issuer doesn’t participate in trading. The price of the securities in the Secondary Market is dependant on current demand and supply.The advantage of the Secondary market is, it facilitates trade between investors and makes securities available to investors who could not participate in the Primary Market. The secondary market plays a vital part of ensuring liquidity. This away helps the issuing entity to raise capital in the future as investors are assured of liquidity/ exit option when needed.
WHAT IS SETTLEMENT AMOUNT? [SEP] The settlement amount is the amount the buyer has to pay to own the bonds. The settlement amount is the sum of the market price of the Bonds and accrued interest.Settlement Amount = Market Price + Accrued InterestAccrued interest is the amount that the borrower( bondholder) is supposed to get from the bond issuer, but it is yet to be paid. If the present bondholder sells his Bond, he has to get the interest until the date of the sale. Read moreThere can be a time gap between the last coupon payout until the date he sells it for which he should be paid interest in addition to the market price of the Bonds. The next interest payout goes to the new bondholder.Daily Interest = Annual Coupon Payment / Number of days in the yearAccrued Interest = Daily Interest X Accrued interest period
WHAT IS TERM SHEET? [SEP] The term sheet is a nonbinding agreement between the issuer and bondholder. It specifies the bond features such as maturity date, coupon, interest payment, liquidation preference, callability, and convertibility. Though the term sheet is nonbinding in nature, it serves as a basis for other legally binding agreements. Term sheets can reduce conflicts between the parties. Hence expenses associated with premature legal actions can be reduced with a term sheet.Read moreThe term sheet is a nonbinding agreement between the issuer and bondholder. It specifies the bond features such as maturity date, coupon, interest payment, liquidation preference, callability, and convertibility. Though the term sheet is nonbinding in nature, it serves as a basis for other legally binding agreements. Term sheets can reduce conflicts between the parties. Hence expenses associated with premature legal actions can be reduced with a term sheet.
Whats is the difference between BID PRICE AND ASK PRICE? [SEP] Market prices depend upon the demand and supply of the bonds and the credit rating of the issuer. During a transaction, buyers and sellers bargain to decide the price of the bond. The buyer’s maximum price is the “bid price” (which means the buyer is not willing to pay beyond the bid price). The lowest price quoted by the seller is the “ask price” (means the seller is not willing to sell the bonds below the ask price).Note: Narrow gap between the “bid price” and “ask-price” is called the spread. A lower spread indicates that a bond is actively traded and hence is liquid. Illiquid Bonds (lower ratings, mostly below A) typically have large spreads.
Do I have to submit 15G/H for every Financial Year ? [SEP] Forms15 G/H is valid for only one financial year and a fresh form 15G/H declaration has to be submitted every year for securities held in physical mode. The duly completed forms should reach us after 1st of April every year, but before record date, to avoid deduction of tax at source.
Do I have to submit form 15G/H if securities are in Demat mode? [SEP] YES, Form 15 G/H is also applicable for securities held in physical form. For securities held in demat form. 
I am not a taxpayer, so am I required to file a declaration for non-deduction of tax at source for my interest amount? [SEP] As per the current provision of Income Tax, Bonds / Debentures held in physical mode on which interest payable in the financial year exceeds Rs. 5000/- , are liable for deduction of tax at source. A declaration in Form 15G/H for claiming tax exemption from interest paid is required to be submitted to us. The form should be duly filled before submission along with Folio No. / ISIN /Company name and the signature of the first holder. Incomplete forms are likely to be rejected.
If I hold in Demat mode, is the interest earned taxable? [SEP] Income tax is not deductible at source as per the existing provisions of section 193 of the I.T Act on interest on debentures in respect of the following for Resident Debenture Holder. “On any securities issued by a company in a dematerialized form and is listed on recognized stock exchange in India. (w.e.f. June 1,2008).”
I want to correct my TDS form filed with you? Kindly let me know the process. [SEP] You can write to us quoting the Company Name, Folio / DPCL & Investor name toFocus AddressEmail-R-T
What is certificate number while submitting / filling of  form 15 G/H ? [SEP] The Certificate option is only meant if your mode of holding securities is in physical form.For DP/CL (demat segment) this mode will be disabled upon click of DP/CL option.
WHAT ARE CORPORATE BONDS? [SEP] A security issued by a company in which the company acknowledges that a stated sum is owed and will be repaid at a certain date. A corporate bond, like a government-issued bond, usually pays a stipulated amount of interest throughout its life to the holder.
WHAT ARE FIXED INTEREST RATE BONDS? [SEP] A fixed interest rate is an unchanging rate paid on bonds. It remains the same for a predefined period of time (it can apply for the part of the term or entire term).
WHAT ARE GOVERNMENT BONDS? [SEP] A government bond or sovereign bond is a bond issued by a national government, generally with a promise to pay periodic interest payments and to repay the face value on the maturity date.
WHAT ARE MASALA BONDS? [SEP] Bonds issued by Indian entities in foreign countries are called Masala Bonds. And masala bonds are traded in Indian currency. The minimum maturity period is three years. The country where masala bonds need to be issued, that country must be a member of the International Organisation of Securities Commission. Indian companies who could raise capital via masala bonds are HDFC, NTPC, and Indiabulls Housing.
WHAT ARE PERPETUAL BONDS? [SEP] Perpetual bonds are debt instruments that do not have fixed maturity, but they are callable in nature. Since there is no fixed maturity, the issuer must pay coupon payments forever or until the issuer calls the bonds. The bondholder can sell these bonds in the secondary market to get back his/ her investment. Investors are subject to perpetual credit risk, but perpetual bonds offer a higher coupon rate than redeemable bonds. Perpetual bonds are also called “consol bonds” or “perps.”
WHAT ARE TIER I BONDS (ADDITIONAL TIER I BONDS)? [SEP] Tier I Bonds also called Perpetual Bonds. As per BASEL III norms, theoretically, these bonds can be carried on till infinity. In reality, they come with a call option after 5 years or 10 years from the date of issuance. It is a popular option among Banks to raise capital to meet their core capital (Tier I capital) needs as instructed by RBI.They carry considerable risk and hence pay high-interest rates to investors. The issuer can skip interest payments if current year business is in the loss. In dire conditions, it can get converted to equity (with approval from RBI). Read moreHence they are also called “quasi-equity”. If RBI approves, then it can be written off up to the full value as wellNote: In case of winding up of the issuer, if any payment is to be made to Tier I capital holders, ATI bondholders are paid before equity holders. . However, in case the Bank is getting merged with another Bank due to its non-viable business state, then AT1 Bonds can be written off fully while keeping the equity capital unaffected.
WHAT ARE TIER II BONDS? [SEP] As per BASEL III norms, Banks raise money via Tier II bonds to meet regulatory norms around capital adequacy. Tier II bonds are subordinated debt and hence not first to be paid during the liquidation process. Tier II bonds are senior to Tier I Bonds. Note: When a bank has to write off losses, it will first write off Tier I bonds and then, if required, move on to Tier II bonds. It also can be written off if PONV (point of non-viability) is triggered.
WHAT DOES STAGGERED MATURITY BONDS MEAN? [SEP] Staggered Maturity Bonds are the bonds that repay the principal amount in multiple installments. Redemption(repaying the debt) may start at any time before the bond matures, as mentioned in the Information Memorandum (IM). In the staggered maturity process, the principal amount is paid partially along with regular interest payments.Read moreAfter redemption starts, subsequent coupon payments will be made based on the outstanding principal amount. Staggered maturity dates and cash flows are defined by the bond structure that may vary from one tranche to another. The issuer is the one who proposes the structure of the bond.
WHAT IS A MUNICIPAL BOND? [SEP] Municipal Corporation or its associate issues bonds to finance public projects such as schools, hospitals, parks, roads, and bridges. These bonds are called Municipal Bonds or Muni Bonds.According to the SEBI’s guidelines, the municipality should not have a negative net worth in three previous years, and it should not have any default in the repayment of debt. Municipality directors should not be enlisted as a wilful defaulter by RBI.Read more Municipal Bonds are generally tax-free. In the case of Municipal Bonds, underlying risk and returns are lower compared to corporate bonds. These bonds traded on all major stock exchanges. Examples of municipal bonds in India are Smart Cities and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urbanisation Transformation.
WHAT IS FOREIGN BONDS? [SEP] Foreign firms issue bonds in domestic countries, and transactions happen in domestic currency; such bonds are called foreign bonds. Foreign Bonds carry additional risk, i.e., Currency Risk. They come with a high coupon rate to attract domestic investors. With foreign bonds, the issuer gets exposure to a broader range of investors. If the borrowing cost in the domestic country is relatively less, then foreign bonds can help the issuer to reduce borrowing costs. The examples for Foreign Bonds are Matilda bonds and Bulldog bond
WHAT IS INFLATION LINKED BONDS? [SEP] Inflation-Linked Bonds (ILBs) are bonds for which the principal value varies with inflation. The principal rises with inflation and decreases with deflation. Inflation-Linked Bonds are designed to protect investors from inflation risk.Suppose a bond gives annual returns of 7% in a year and inflation is 3 %. Then the real returns are not 7%, but 4%.The yield of ILBs varies with inflation. Investors of ILBs will pay tax on interest earned beyond the inflation rate for that year. ILBs are taxed like other regular bonds.
WHAT IS INVESTMENT-GRADE BONDS? [SEP] The set of bonds that carry relatively low risk are called as Investment Grade Bonds. Default risk is very low; hence they are given high credit ratings. Yields for investment-grade bonds are lower than the non-investment grade bonds.Note: In India, “AAA” to “BBB” rated bonds are considered as investment-grade bonds.
WHAT IS ZERO-COUPON BOND? [SEP] Zero-coupon bonds do not pay interest, but they are sold at a discount and return full face value on redemption. The bondholder can sell these bonds before maturity at market price. The difference between the purchase amount and face value is the return that the investor gets. If a bondholder sells bonds before maturity, returns will be the difference between purchase value and selling price.Read moreIn the case of zero-coupon bonds, the longer the tenure higher will be the discount. Compared to the regular bonds, the pricing of zero-coupon bonds is more volatile.Note: Investors of Zero-Coupon Bonds are subjected to capital gains tax only.
WHAT ARE HIGH-YIELD BONDS? [SEP] The set of bonds that offer relatively much higher yields than investment-grade bonds is called High-Yield Bonds or Junk Bonds. Default risk is high; they carry a low credit rating. To compensate investors for taking the risk, the issuer of high-yield bonds offers a higher interest rate. The price of high-yield bonds is volatile. Companies with high debt ratio issue high-yield bonds.Note: In India, bonds rated below “BBB” are considered high-yield bonds.
WHAT DOES THE TERM CURRENT YIELD MEAN FOR BONDS? [SEP] The current yield is the present interest rate that the bond is offering to its owner. This is the rate of interest that a potential buyer can expect if they acquire this bond and hold on to it for a year. Current Yield = Annual interest payment/ Current bond price.
WHAT DOES YIELD TO WORST (YTW) MEAN FOR BONDS? [SEP] Yield to Worst is the measure of the lowest yield that a bond can return without defaulting. Yield to maturity can be the same as Yield to Worst but can be more than Yield to Worst. Generally, Yield to Call is the same as Yield to Worst. The calculation of YTW helps the investor understand the minimum returns that a bond can give in worst cases.
WHAT IS THE TERM  YIELD TO CALL? [SEP] Some bonds have a call option where the bond issuer can redeem the bond before the maturity date. The issuer needs a call option to reduce interest rate risk and avoid damage when interest rates decline. Having a call option will allow the issuer to redeem bonds and reissue them at a lower interest rate. However, there are some preset terms and conditions that have to be met. The calculation of yield to call depends on the coupon rate, the call date, and the price at which the bond was purchased by the holder.
What is the term Yield used for? [SEP] The yield is the effective interest rate on bonds. The yield will vary inversely with the market price of the bond.Yield= (Coupon/ Market Price of Bond) X 100
WHAT IS YIELD CURVE? [SEP] Yield Curve is a line formed by joining yields having equal credit quality and have varying maturity.There are three types of the yield curve & they are:Normal: Upward yield curve indicates higher yields for bonds with longer maturity. It implies a better economy in the future, i.e., economic expansion.Read moreInverted: Downward Yield represents a lower yield for bonds with longer maturity. This indicates a recession in the future.Flat: A flat curve represents a very narrow gap between the yields of bonds with longer maturity and shorter maturity. This indicates an economic transition.
WHAT IS YIELD SPREAD MEAN FOR BONDS? [SEP] The yield spread is the difference between yields of two bonds issued by the same or different issuer and may come with varying maturity, credit rating, and risk. The yield spread is calculated and expressed in percentage or basis points.The ten-year GSecs are considered a benchmark; hence yield from corporate bonds is frequently compared with yield from Gsec. The study of yield spread helps to understand the economy.
WHAT IS YIELD TO MATURITY (YTM) ? [SEP] The yield to maturity is the total return expected from a bond if it is held to maturity. In other words, it is the internal rate of return (IRR) of a bond if the investor holds the bond until maturity, and if all payments are made as per schedule.
What are Callable Bonds? [SEP] The callable bond is a bond that the issuer can redeem before it reaches the maturity date also known as a redeemable bond. The call date is when a bond issuer can redeem a callable bond according to the schedule. If the interest rates fall, the issuer can buyback bonds. And with revised interest rates, the issuer can issue bonds at lower interest rates to reduce borrowing costs. Callable bonds offer a higher rate of interest than noncallable bonds of equal quality. And callable bonds are repurchased by the issuer at a premium price.
WHAT ARE CAPITAL GAIN BONDS (54EC BONDS)?: [SEP] 54EC Bonds are Capital Gain Tax Exemption Bonds that provide100% tax exemption on the long term capital gain earned by selling any property. These bonds are the best options to save tax after the property sale. But conditions apply, such as the time gap between property sale and bond investment cannot exceed six months. Also, the investment limit in 54EC Bonds is 50 lakhs.Note: 54 EC Bonds do not provide any exemption on short term capital gains.
WHAT ARE CONVERTIBLE BONDS? [SEP] Convertible Bonds are the corporate bonds that bear the provision to be converted into a predetermined number of common stock or equity shares. Like any other Bond, these Bonds pay coupons regularly too. Conversion to common stock happens at a specific time before maturity and usually at investors’ discretion. The issuer also can force conversion to skip the redemption of bonds.By issuing convertible bonds, companies can keep the company’s sale of equity under check and hence control promoter holdings dilution. As these bonds come with an extra feature of convertibility, they come with a lower coupon rate, reducing borrowing costs. If share prices are high, the investors can opt to convert bonds into shares; otherwise, they will continue to receive regular coupon payments.
WHAT ARE SECURED and UNSECURED BONDS? [SEP] Secured Bonds are bonds that are collateralized by an issuer’s asset or future cash flows. If the issuer defaults, then bondholders can claim the asset or the cash flow generating source.Read moreUnsecured Bonds don’t come with any collateral. If the issuer defaults, unsecured bondholders can’t claim any of the issuers’ assets. Here investment decision is taken purely on trust on the issuer and credit history of the issuer. All unsecured bonds are not unsafe creditworthiness of the issuer’s matters.Note: During bankruptcy, secured bonds are paid before unsecured bonds.
WHAT ARE SENIOR BONDS AND SUBORDINATE BONDS? [SEP] Senior Bonds are the bonds that are considered before other junior bonds in the hierarchy of payment during liquidation. Senior Bonds come with lower risk. Subordinate bonds come with higher returns and relatively higher risk. In the extreme case of liquidation of the Bond Issuing company, “senior bonds” are paid off before “subordinate bonds.
What is Coupon Frequency? [SEP] Coupon Frequency refers to how regularly an issuer pays the coupon to holder. Bonds pay interest monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually.
What is Coupon / Interest ? [SEP] Coupon / Interest is the cash flow that is offered by a particular security at fixed intervals / predefined dates. The coupon expressed as a percentage of the face value of the security gives the coupon rate.
What is Coupon Rate? [SEP] The Coupon or Coupon rate is the rate of interest paid by fixed-interest security such as Bond/ Debenture. It is the annual payment towards the face value of a bond. The bond issuing company pays it to the bond investor.Example: You buy a bond with the face value of Rs. 10,000, coupon rate of 10 %, and maturity five years. Let us assume that the date of payment is on 5th August every year. The Bond will also mature in the 5th year on 5th August. You will receive the annual interest payment for five years on every 5th August. The annual payment or the coupon value will be 10% of the face value of the Bond i.e., Rs. 1000 (10% of 10000). And at the date of maturity i.e., 5th August of the 5th year, you will get back your principal amount i.e., Rs 10,000 plus the last coupon payment of Rs 1000Note: Face value is the price of the bond at which it is issued.The maturity of the bond refers to the date when Bond expires. On this date, the investor receives his principal amount and any outstanding interest payment 
What is the term Coupon Payment? How Coupon payment is made ? [SEP] A coupon payment is an annual interest that is paid to the bondholder from the date the bond is issued until the maturity date.The issuer notifies a record date for identification of the eligible investors which is known as record date. The record date is normally 15 to 30 days prior to the actual payment date. All the investors available in the books of the bond on the record date are eligible to receive the coupon payment. The coupon will be paid through NEFT / NECS/Warrant based on the available bank details.
Depository Services [SEP] Please select a topic from Depository Services
Accounts in Minor Name [SEP] Please select an option from Accounts in Minor Name
Can Power of Attorney be appointed in minors demat account? [SEP] No,Power of Attorney (POA)is not allowed for operating a Minor’s Demat  Account
In case there is a Name mismatch in Minor’s name on PAN card ? [SEP] Name mismatch declaration signed by the bank staff under his name, sign and employee code along with self attested alternate ID proof of the Minor is required.
List of documents required to open minors demat account? [SEP] Guardian needs to submit his and minor’s self attested documents for opening minors demat accounts. List of documents required are as below:
a.Pan Card copies and address proofs required for both - Minor and Guardian. 
b. A valid Date of Birth (DOB) proof of minor is required (Copy of Birth Certificate/ c.Passport/Marksheet issued by HSC /School leaving certificate).
d.Individual FATCA Annexure along with C-KYC page in AOF required for both- Minor and Guardian.
e.Separate KYC page required for both – Minor and Guardian.
Which address proof is required if Minors Correspondence and Permanent address are different? [SEP] In Case of different addresses, take both separate self attested address proofs for updating the correspondence and permanent addresses.
Who is authorised to operate a minor’s demat account and submit all documentation? [SEP] In case of minor’s Demat account the Natural Guardian / Court Appointed Legal Guardian (in case not Natural Guardian) is authorised to operate and submit self attested documents for account opening.
Whose bank / contact details are linked to Minors demat account? [SEP] Minors Savings Bank Account is linked for Dividend Mandate in a Minor’s Demat Account. The Guardians Contact details like Mobile and E-mail id needs to be updated in Minors contact details.
Changes in Demat Info [SEP] Please select an option from Changes in Demat Info
Can a holder rectify minor correction in name in individual Demat account? [SEP] A written request to be submitted by the client (in case of joint a/c request must be signed by Client in whose name, minor correction is required) along with self-attested any one proof of identity which carried correct name after showing the original proof. Documents accepted are a. PAN cardb. AADHAAR cardc. Passportd.. Driving Licencee. Voter’s identity card issued by the Election Commission of Indiaf. Job card issued by NREGA
Can any demat account holder update his/her  Bank details for receiving dividend credits? [SEP] Yes, Can has an option to update Bank or any other bank details also for dividend credit
The form for a change in Bank account details is available on the DPs  website 
Can I change details of my bank account registered in demat account? [SEP] Yes. You may change bank account details registered in your demat account any time by submitting a written request to your DP. You will also need to provide supporting documents for your new bank account. For example, copy of passbook or account statement or cancelled cheque leaf, containing your name, bank account number, bank name, MICR code and IFSC.
Can minor demat account be converted to major without changing the demat account number? [SEP] Yes, When a minor demat account holder turns major Client can Continue with the same demat account on submission of the below documents one the minor attained majorFresh Demat Account Opening Form (for Resident & Non-Resident Individuals both) dully filled and signed by the account holderR & O consent needs to be signed by the account holderSelf Attested PAN card documentsID & Address proof of the account holderapplication FormFATCA Annexure of account holder
Can residential status be changed i.e Resident to Non- Resident of vice versa? [SEP] Yes , the investors needs to fill up a change in residential status form along with KYC documents & Extended KYC annexure for change in residential status for individuals.‘Request for change of residential status ‘ form ( duly filled and signed by all holders)‘KYC form and Extended KYC Annexure Individuals‘ (duly filled and signed by all holders)Self signed copy of the Proof of Address (Foreign, Mailing, Indian – as applicable)Incase of Resident to NR - Self signed copy of the relevant pages of the current passport along with copy of the resident Visa / Work Permit / Employment Visa / Current Visa or any other type of Visa.
How do I change my address with my DP? [SEP] You can change your address in the depository system by submitting a written request to your DP. Such a request should be signed by all the joint holders, if account is jointly held. Following documents should be submitted along with the request -a. Latest Transaction Statement of the demat account (not required if the client visits DP personally).b. Self-attested copy of any proof of identity document like PAN card, Passport, Voter’s identity card, Aadhaar card, Driving license, NREGA card.c. Self-attested copy of any document as proof of new address Passport, Voter’s identity card, Aadhaar card, Driving license.You would be required to produce original document for the purpose of verification of photocopy by your DP. You or your authorized representative should sign the application once again in the presence of the officials of the Participant. Once the request for change in address is processed in the depository system, an email is sent by the depository to the account holder(s) informing the update, in addition to intimation from the DP.
How do I change my signature in my demat account? [SEP] You may change your signature in demat account by following the procedure mentioned below –
a. Submit a written request to your DP mentioning the reason for change in signature.
b. New signature should be attested by your banker.
c. You should visit the DPs office personally and produce valid proof of identity.
d. You should affix your new signature in presence of DP official.
e. An authorised official of the DP shall verify the identity proof with the proof and photograph that were furnished at the time of opening of account. If found satisfactory, DP will make necessary changes in depository system.
What is the process Change of Signature in demat account? [SEP] To change the signature of holder(s) in demat account, the following documents are required-
Change of signature request in prescribed format signed by all account holders. 
Holder(s) of the demat account whose signature is to be changed should visit the branch for submitting the application. New signature(s) of holder(s) should be attested by Banker. 
Self attested proof of identity of account holder(s) whose signature is/are to be changed. Reason for change of signature. 
New signature affixed on the application must match with the signature affixed in presence of attesting authority. 
What is the process for Change of Address in demat account? [SEP] To change the address in Demat account, the following documents are required along with form
Change of address in prescribed format signed by all the account holders. 
Self attested proof of identity of all the account holders. 
Self attested proof of new (Correspondence/Permanent) address in the name of first holder. 
New Address Proof
On updation of new address a confirmation letter will be sent to the old and new address.
What is the process to change the bank details for debit authorization or dividend mandate? [SEP] Customer needs to submit a appropriate bank details change form whether for debit authorization or dividend mandate giving the demat account account details. Client need to submit the below documents:
Specimen copy of cheque / cancelled cheque leaf or
Copy of Bank Statement or
Copy of Bank passbook ord. Letter from bank
.The documents mentioned must contain the Bank Name, Branch Address, IFSC / MICR Code, Name of the Account Holder and Account Number
What should I do if my address is changed? Do I need to write to each company separately? [SEP] In case your address is changed, you need to inform the new address to your DP. When DP enters the new address in the depository system, it will be automatically conveyed to all companies in which you hold shares / units etc.
Whats the process for Change of Name in individual demat account? [SEP] Customer needs to visit nearest DP servicing branch and submit a letter for change in name duly signed by the holder whose name needs to be changed. Also self attested copies of following documents are required as per the reason for Name Change after showing the original proof.
Documents required Change in name On account of marriage : 
(i) Marriage Certificate or 
(ii) Copy of Passport showing husband’s name or 
(iii)Publication of name change in official gazette  
On account of reason other than marriage :- 
Publication of name change in official gazette. 
Whats the process to update nomination in demat account? [SEP] All Demat account holder/s need to sign and submit the duly filled multiple nomination form at nearest DP servicing branch. The form needs to be filled with nominees details (maximum three along with their percentage of share) and any one of the below details along with details and signature of one witness: 
Nominees photograph and signature or PAN or Aadhaar number or Details of saving bank ccount maintained with Participant or Copy of any other proof of identity of nominee (accompanied by originals for verification or duly attested by any entity authorized for attesting the documents as prescribed by SEBI) or Demat account details of nominee. 
Corporate Benefits [SEP] Please select an option from Corporate Benefits
From where will I get information about any corporate action announced by a company? [SEP] Corporate actions are communicated to the shareholders by the Company. However, if you are not a shareholder, the corporate action details can be accessed from the NSE and BSE. You can visit below websites to get further details:www.nseindia.com » Enter Company Name» Click on Company Informationwww.bseindia.com » Enter Company Name» Click on Corporate Announcements
How do I confirm that bonus / rights entitlement credited in my demat account is correct? [SEP] An allotment advice is issued by the Issuer company / its RTA for bonus / rights entitlement. You should check the same with the demat account statement received by you. The quantity shown in the advice and account statement should match.
How will I receive the benefits of corporate actions such as dividend /rights /bonus? [SEP] Shares lying in deDematccount:You will receive shares/dividends/ bonus/ interest directly from the company's registrar into your bank account/Demat account or through cheque/ DD.Shares lying in trading/ pool account:You will receive shares/dividends/ bonus/ interest from a broker where you hold a trading and a demat account.
How would I get bonus shares if I am holding shares in demat form? [SEP] The concerned company obtains the details of beneficiary holders and their holdings from the depositories  on the record date. The number of shares you are entitled for, are credited to your demat account by the company / its RTA.
How would I get my dividend / interest or other cash entitlements? [SEP] The concerned company obtains the details of beneficiary holders from the depositories as on the record date. The due amount is credited to the linked bank account of the demat account holder directly by the company.
What are the types of corporate action? [SEP] The different types of corporate actions announced by a company are:Rights issueDividendStock SplitConversion of debentures into sharesAmalgamationMergerDemergerCapital reduction / Consolidation of sharesBuy BackBonusOpen Offer
What is amalgamation? [SEP] An amalgamation is the process by which two or more companies or legal persons merge into a single entity.
What is Bonus? [SEP] A bonus share is a free share of stock given to current shareholders in a company, based upon the number of shares that the shareholder already owns. While the issue of bonus shares increases the total number of shares issued and owned, it does not change the market capitalization of the company.
What is Buy- Back? [SEP] Offer by issuing company to existing shareholders to repurchase the company’s own shares or other securities convertible into shares. This results in a reduction in the number of outstanding shares.
What is corporate action? [SEP] Corporate actions are actions taken by a company that impacts the shareholder's value directly. It is an event that brings material changes to a company and affects its stakeholders.These may be either monetary e.g. dividend, or non-monetary e.g. Bonus, rights, or stock splits.
What is demerger? [SEP] Demergers are situations in which divisions or subsidiaries of parent companies are hived off into independent corporations.The process for a demerger can vary depending on the reasons behind the implementation of the split.Generally, the parent company maintains some degree of financial interest in the newly formed corporation, although that interest may not be enough to maintain control of the new corporate entity.
What is meant by Consolidation? [SEP] A consolidation is an Exchange of existing shares for a fewer number of the same share type with an increase in the nominal value per share maintaining the company’s overall share capital. This means that although your shareholding is reduced, you do not lose any value as the market price of the shares will increase accordingly.A company would issue a consolidation (reverse stock split) to increase the share price because they feel it would be more marketable at a higher price. The nominal value of each share is adjusted to maintain an equal total share capital as before the consolidation. The new shares are issued free of all charges to shareholders. On the effective date of the consolidation, the price per share is adjusted to take into account the reduced number of shares in issue.
What is meant by Dividend? [SEP] Simply defined, Dividend is the portion of profit of a company, distributed to its shareholders.
What is meant by Open offer? [SEP] Acquirer offer to purchase a particular company’s shares from existing shares holder at a pre-decided price, accordingly public announcement & letter of offer issued to all existing shares holder wherein details of Escrow demat a/c mentioned in the same.The open offer is for a particular period which is also mentioned in the letter of offer.
What is meant by Rights Issue? [SEP] When a company wants to raise capital, the issue of fresh shares to the existing shareholders is one option available to the company. In such an issue, existing shareholders have the right to buy a specified number of new shares of the company at a specified price within a specified time. Usually, this price is below the market price. The idea is to reward existing shareholders with an investment opportunity, which is perceived to be attractive.
What is meant by stock split? [SEP] A company increases the number of shares that are outstanding by issuing more shares to existing shareholders. For example, in a 2-for-1 stock split, every shareholder holding one share is given an additional share. In such a case, the face value of the share is reduced (say from ` 10 to 5 per share).Companies' stock price is also affected by a stock split. After a split, the stock price of the company reduces since the number of outstanding shares increases, however, the market capitalization remains the same.
What is merger? [SEP] The combining of two or more companies, generally by offering the stockholders of one company securities in the acquiring company in exchange for the surrender of their securities.
What is the eligibility of the corporate action? [SEP] Let us understand the meaning of different important dates for corporate actions:Declaration Date: This is the date on which the board of directors announces to shareholders and the market as a whole that the company will pay a dividend.Ex Date: This is the date on which security trades without the benefit of Corporate Action. An investor buying a security on or after the ex-date is not eligible for Corporate Action by the Company.Record Date: This is the date on which the company looks at its records to see who are the shareholders of the company entitled to the Corporate Action. An investor holding shares on the record date will be eligible for the Corporate ActionDate of payment: This is the date on which the company mails out the Corporate Action to the holder of shares on the record date. This date is generally a week or more after the record date so that the company has sufficient time to ensure that it accurately pays all those who are entitled.[ Below is the table that will tell who is eligible for the corporate action:[ Before Ex Date   : On Ex Date   : After Ex-DateBuyer Eligible :Not eligible :Not eligibleSeller Not eligible :Eligible :EligibleHence if you are holding shares in a trading (pool)/demat account on or before the record date irrespective of debit or credit balances in your trading or demat account; you are eligible for corporate benefits.
What is the importance of record date? [SEP] Record date is the date, which is taken as cutoff day by a company to consider the list of shareholders for the purpose of distribution of any type of corporate benefit. You would be entitled to receive the benefits as declared by the company if your name appears in the list of shareholders as on the ‘record date’. Therefore, it is important for you to ensure that securities bought by you are transferred to your account by your broker before record date.
Whom should I coordinate to know if I am eligible for corporate benefit? [SEP] You can contact to the RTA of the Company.Focus Address
what are the Corporate Benefits in opening a demat account? [SEP] Monetary Benefits:-In the case of benefits such as Dividends, Interest and Refunds the company concerned processes the same through the ECS (Stands for Electronic Clearing Service. It is a mode by which funds are automatically debited to your account every month to pay or a certain bill or fee. It helps so you don’t have to remember every month to pay your regular bills. It is only done after a standing instruction is given by the account holder) route, crediting your bank account details available on the date of entitlement. Hence account holders should update their dividend bank details along with the MICR and IFS code in their Demat Accounts.Read moreNon-Monetary Benefits:-In the case of benefits such as Bonuses and Rights, the necessary intimation and forms are dispatched by the Registrar and Transfer Agent or Company on the day of entitlement.Similarly, in the case of Open Offers and Buybacks, and or any other corporate actions like Mergers, Demergers and Amalgamations, the necessary communication will be mailed to your address available in your Demat Account.With Buybacks and Open Offers the balance shares, if any, will be credited back to your Demat Account directly by the relevant Registrar and Transfer Agent or Company.Similarly, in the case of Open Offers and Buybacks, and or any other corporate actions like Mergers, Demergers and Amalgamations, the necessary communication will be mailed to your address available in your Demat Account.With Buybacks and Open Offers the balance shares, if any, will be credited back to customers Demat Account directly by the relevant Registrar or Company.
What are the different options available to customers to get demat account Statements? [SEP] a. The customers opted for statement by email facility will get statements through email.
b. If the first account holder has a Savings or Current Account with Bank it is also possible to register for NetBanking and DP on Net to get all available statements and demat details.
On Logging in to Netbanking.account holders with an Bank Savings or Current Account can view the following -
Transaction Statement for the current and past 4 financial years with a date range upto 12 months in Text, PDF & Excel formats
Download option for Monthly Billing Statements for last 1 year
On-line request for issuance of Delivery Instruction Booklet & Pledge / Hypothecation Forms
View the status of Demat requests
Get ISIN details with market rate
c. Customers can also call customer services-phone banking asking for statements
d. Customers can also ask for statements using wats app banking service
Dematerialisation of Securities [SEP] Please select an option from Dematerialisation
+2023 Demat of Securities. [SEP] List of Documents to be submitted to the DP. i)     Original security certificate / Letter of Confirmation received from RTA ii)    Demat Request Formiii)   Notarized copies of Death Certificate / Marriage Certificate / Notification as applicable in Government Gazette, etc. as applicableiv)   Transposition Request Form, wherever applicableFollowing additional documents required to be submitted in the case of non-availability of signature/ mismatch in signature:v)    Form ISR-2 and canceled cheque leaf (in case of non-availability of signature/mismatch in signature / new signature(s) is to be recorded)vi)   Copy of PAN Cardvii)  Copy of Address Proof  As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
-2023 Non Receipt of Rejected Demat Request Forms. [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceIn case the Dematerialisation request is rejected, we have sent the said certificates under objection to your Depository participant (DP). You need to contact the DP where it was submitted for assistance and to take the necessary steps for rectification and re-submission of the demat request.You may arrange to re-submit the securities to the DP for Dematerialisation, after necessary rectifications. Please ensure that a fresh DRF is submitted and not the one that had been rejected.For further queries in this regard, kindly quote the DRN number, as mentioned in your DRF form, for us to track the same from our end. 
+2023 Remat of Securities. [SEP] List of Documents to be submitted to the DP. i)     Remat Request Formii)    Form ISR-2 (in case new signature(s) is to be recorded)iii)   Notarized copies of Death Certificate / Marriage Certificate / Notification in the Government Gazette, etc. as applicableiv)   Client Master List of the Demat Account / PAN. As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
How can a customer check the Dematerialisation Credit of securities in demat account? [SEP] After receiving the securities certificates and DRF, the Registrar/Company will process the request and arrange to credit the equivalent quantity into your Demat Account. This process takes around 21 days but may vary from one Registrar/Company to another.
You may verify your monthly Demat transaction statement in months when transactions occur. You can also check your statement on the DPs website, if you are a customer and have linked your Demat Account. The status will be reflected as "Pending Demat" till the time the electronic credit is made to your account. Once the credit is made, it will be reflected / added in the beneficiary balance.
Depositories also sends an SMS to you, intimating the demat credits.Rejection of Demat Requests
How much time is required for Dematerialisation of Securities? [SEP] On completion of submission of securities, verification from the DP  and forwarding the certificates to the relevant Registrar the Dematerialisation credit process normally takes around 30 days but may vary depending on the Registrar and Company. If the securities have not been credited after 30 days, you may contact the DP who will assist you to coordinate with the Company / Registrar to receive demat credits.
If case the Dematerialisation request is rejected, customer needs to contact the DP where the same was submitted. They will help to rectify and resubmit the Demat request.
What do you mean by Dematerialisation of Securities? [SEP] Dematerialisation of Securities involves converting of Physical Securities into an electronic format.
Since Stock Exchange transactions can be handled in Demat form only, it is good to hold your securities in electronic form. This way, it’s easy to make a transfer to another account and you will not attract stamp duty (A tax levied on documents, stamp duty applies to documents like cheques, receipts, licenses and transaction records)
Points to Remember while submission for Dematerialisation of Securities:
Submit original certificates with a Demat Request Form (DRF)
Ensure that you have signatures from all account holders
Certificates should state ‘Surrendered for De-materialization’ your client ID and DP ID
Make your DRF submission in triplicate, or as requested by your DP
What is the process followed on submission of securities for Dematerilisation? [SEP] When the DP has received the DRF and certificates, DP will:
Verify all names as per Depository system
Verify all signatures as per DP records
Forward the certificates to the relevant Registrar or Company
What is the process in case the Dematerialisation request is rejected for any reason? [SEP] In case the Dematerialisation request is rejected, customer needs to contact the DP where it was submitted for assistance on receipt, rectification and re-submission of demat request.
An SMS is also sent to customer, intimating the demat rejection. 
You may arrange to re-submit the securities to the DP for Dematerialisation, after necessary rectifications. Please ensure that a fresh DRF is submitted and not the one that has just been rejected.
Can my electronic holdings be converted back into paper certificates? [SEP] Yes. If you wish to get back your securities in physical form, you need to submit Rematerialisation Request Form in prescribed format to your DP. After necessary checks, your DP will forward your request through  depository system to the concerned Issuer company / RTA. The company / RTA will print the certificates and dispatch the same to you directly. You should check the rematerialisation charges with your DP before submitting the request.
Does the rematerialization attract any stamp duty? [SEP] No. Remat does not amount to transfer and hence does not attract any stamp duty.
If the physical certificate issued on rematerialization has some mistake in the name or any other details, whom should the investor contact [SEP] If the physical certificate issued on rematerialization has some mistake in the name or any other details, whom should the investor contactThe Issuer or RTA, should be contacted in case of mistake in the name or any other details in the physical certificate issued.
If the physical certificate issued on rematerialization has some mistake in the name or any other details, whom should the investor contact? [SEP] The Issuer or RTA, should be contacted in case of a mistake in the name or any other details in the physical certificate issued.
In case of request for rematerialization, does one get back the same certificate(s) that was dematerialized? [SEP] No. The Issuer / RTA will issue a new certificate(s). The new certificate/s may be issued under the new folio number or in the existing folio, if the investor already has one with the company.
is it possible to rematerialize lock-in securities held in a demat account? [SEP] Yes. Lock-in securities in a demat account can be rematerialized. If a BO has free as well as lock-in securities in his account for an ISIN then a separate RRF is to be submitted for rematerialization of free quantity and quantity under lock-in. If lock-in balance is for different lock-in reasons or different lock-in expiry dates then a separate RRF is to be submitted for each lock-in reason / lock-in expiry date combination.
What do you mean by Re-materialisation of Securities? [SEP] Re-materialisation is where electronic securities are converted into physical securities – the reverse of de-materialisation. It is important that customer refers to the applicable tariff or branch for remat charges during submission of remat request.
What is the process and documents required for Re-materialisation ? [SEP] Customer needs to submit the Rematerialisation Request Form (RRF) to nearest DP servicing branch. RRF is available on the DPs  website. Please note:
Request RRF is signed by all account holders
One RRF per ISIN (Stands for International Securities Identification Number. ISIN is a unique 12-character alpha-numerical code for a security so you can trade in that security. Securities for which ISINs are issued include bonds, commercial paper, equities and warrants). per account is submitted.
 
What is the process followed by DP on receipt of Rematerialisation Request Form? [SEP] When DP receive RRF, it will:
Verify names
Verify signatures
Process your request and forward it to the Registrar or Company
The physical security certificate is sent by the Registrar or Company directly to your address registered for the demat account through which the remat has been requested
What is the process of rematerialisation ? [SEP] A client can rematerialise his dematerialised holdings at any point of time. The securities sent for rematerialisation cannot be traded. The client will submit a request to the DP, stating the lot size for rematerialisation of holdings in its account.On receipt of the request form, the DP will verify that the Remat Request Form (RRF)is duly filled in and issue to the client, an acknowledgement slip, signed and stamped.Read moreThe DP will verify the signature of the client as on the RRF with the specimen available in its records. If the signatures are different the DP will ensure the identity of the client.If the RRF is in order the DP will enter the request details in its Depository platform (NSDL or CDSL). While entering the details, if it is found that the clients account does not have enough balance, the DP will not entertain the request.The DP will intimate the client that the request cannot be entertained since the client does not have sufficient balance.If there is sufficient balance in the clients account, the DP will enter the request in the DPM and the DPM will generate a Rematerialisation Request Number (RRN).Read moreThe DM forwards the request to the Issuer/ R&T agent electronically.The DP will fill the authorisation portion of the request form.The DP will then despatch the request form to the Issuer/ R&T agent.While processing the request, the Issuer/ R&T agent may report some objections. Depending on the nature of objection, the Issuer/ R&T agent may reject the request or process it partially, seeking rectification for the remaining, and send an objection memo to the DP.Read moreThe Issuer/ R&T agent accepts the request for rematerialisation prints and despatches the certificates to the client and sends electronic confirmation through the depository system..
What is the timeline to complete remat of securities? [SEP] The rematerialisation process should be completed within 30 days.
-2023 Registration of Power of Attorney (POA) [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.Short definition: If you authorize any person to operate your account by executing a power of attorney, that person can operate the account on your behalf. However, you need to submit a Notarised copy of the POA to the RTA, including the signature of the Donor and Donee. Notarised documents should carry the registration number of the notary, along with the book no., and serial no., to authenticate the registration of the document in his books. If the POA registration is an old document, more than one year old then, the shareholder must authenticate that the POA is still in force, by signing a letter to that effect. The photograph should be signed acrossFor Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC compliant folio, please submit the following: In case of Registering an Individual person as POA:i)             A consent/request letter duly signed as per the mode of holding by all the shareholder(s) as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company along with supporting documents as indicated hereinii)            POA agreement duly signed by both investor and POA on all the pages and attested by a notary public.iii)           KYC of POAiv)           Self-attested copies of PAN with the date and address proof of the POAv)            Bank attestation letter as per Form ISR-2 of the POA holder for signature registration. In case of Registering Corporate as POA: i)             A consent/request letter duly signed as per the mode of holding by the first holder as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company along with supporting documents as indicated hereinii)            POA agreement duly signed by both investor and POA on all the pagesiii)           KYC of POAiv)           Written request duly signed by the Board of Directors / Board Resolution from POAv)            New List of Authorized Signatory of POAvi)           Self-attested copies of PAN with the date and address proof of the POAvii)          Bank attestation letter as per Form ISR-2 of the POA holder for signature registration. Shareholder needs to execute a Power of Attorney in favor of the concerned person and submit a notarised copy of the same to the Company’s STA. After scrutiny of the documents, the STA shall register the Power of Attorney and inform the registration details to shareholder concerned. Whenever the Power of Attorney holder proposes to enter into a transaction, the registration number mentioned above should be quoted in the correspondence.  Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Self Certified copies of PAN of all the holders of securities.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.
At what frequency I should receive my demat account statement? [SEP] Depositories provides a consolidated account statement to you at monthly intervals/ quarterly intervals, If there are transactions in the given month (/quarter). In case there is no transaction in the account, or if the balance has become Nil during the year, the statement is sent annually to such clients.
Can a BO hold his securities partially in physical form and partially in demat form? [SEP] Yes. Part of the BO’s holdings can be held in physical form as per the choice of the investor. Though it is advisable to have the entire holdings held in demat mode so that the holdings have liquidity as and when available. It should be noted that part dematerialization of holdings represented by a single physical certificate is not allowed.
Can a customer open non resident standalone Demat account non face to face while living abroad? [SEP] Yes, in case customer is abroad, he can send all documents duly self attested and attested by any one of the following :- Notary Public, Any court of law, Magistrate. Judge, Local Banker with Bank Seal, Name, Designation, Employee Code of the Person doing attestation or lastly by Indian Embassy / Consulate General of the country. Same documents need to be submitted with Non PIS declaration/ PIS decalartion and Fema Declaration
Can a demat account be opened for a minor? [SEP] Yes. Demat account can be opened in the name of a minor. The account will be operated by a guardian till the minor becomes major. Guardian has to be the father or in his absence mother. In absence of both, father or mother, the guardian can be appointed by court.
Can a Demat Delivery Instruction Booklet (DIB) be issued online in case of joint holders in account? [SEP] No, DIB can be issued online using netbanking -only incase the demat account is held in single name.
Can a depository account be opened with four holders names? [SEP] Yes, a depository account can be opened in the name of four holders but the account can be operated only for the demateralisation of shares held in the same combination. Once the shares are dematerialised the securities should be transferred and Demat Account should be closed. No shares can be credited by purchase or transferred from any other account. Hence for such accounts, the standing instruction for credits will be "N".
Can a Investor hold his securities partially in physical form and partially in demat form? Can a sole holder of the share certificate, add any name as a joint holder, at the time of dematerializing the share certificate? [SEP] It is possible for investors to hold Part of the holding in physical form and part in demat form. It is not possible to add any name while dematerialization of a share certificate. If the shares held in a single name are intended to be held in any joint account, they have to be transferred to such names before they are dematerialized. Alternatively, such shares can be dematerialized first in the demat account in the single name and then transferred to the demat account in the joint names, or vice-versa, through an off-market transaction.
Can a Minor open a Demat and Trading account ? [SEP] Yes, Demat Account can be opened in the name of a Minor but not a Trading Account. For account opening for Indivuals needs to be used.
Can a minor’s demat/ trading account be continued when he/she becomes  major? [SEP] Yes. A minor’s demat/ trading account can be continued when the minor becomes major. However, on attaining majority, the erstwhile minor should confirm the balance in his/her account and he/she has to complete formalities as are required for opening a demat/ trading account to continue in the same account/s.
Can a sole holder of the share certificate, add any name as a joint holder, at the time of dematerializing the share certificate? [SEP] No. It is not possible to add any name while dematerialization of a share certificate. If the shares held in single name are intended to be held in any joint account, they have to be transferred to such names before they are dematerialized. Alternatively, such shares can be dematerialized first in the demat account in the single name and then transferred to the demat account in the joint names, or vice-versa, through an off-market transaction.
Can a trading account be opened in the name of a minor? [SEP] Trading account can be opened in the name of the minor only for the sole purpose of sale of securities which minor has possessed by way of investment in IPO, inheritance, corporate action, off market transfers under the following reason: i. Gift / Donationii. Transfer between family membersiii. Implementation of Government / Regulatory Directions or OrdersHowever, such an account will be operated by the natural guardian till the minor becomes a major.
Can buying and selling of securities be done in minor’s trading account? [SEP] A minor cannot enter into a contract with a stock broker to purchase or sell any security. However, a trading account in the name of a minor can be opened only for the sole purpose of selling of securities possessed by the minor in the manner specified above.
Can debt instruments, government securities and mutual fund units be dematerialized in the same demat account? [SEP] Yes. Debt instruments, mutual fund units, and government securities can also be held in dematerialized form in the same demat account where equities are held.
Can I convert my investment in Sovereign Gold Bonds (SGB) held in paper form (Certificate of Holding form) into demat form? [SEP] Yes, you may do so. For this purpose, you need to contact the bank / agent from whom you had purchased the SGBs. They will assist you in conversion of SGBs held in form of Certificate of Holdings into demat form.
Can I dematerialize any share certificate? [SEP] No, not all the share certificates can be dematerialized. For dematerialization, following conditions should be met with -
You can dematerialize only those share certificates that are already registered in your name in records of issuing company / its RTA
The Issuer company should have joined any of the depositories and should obtain an ISIN for those shares
Shares should be free from any lien or charge or encumbrance.
Can I dematerialize my investment in tax-free bonds which are under lock-in? [SEP] Yes. You can dematerialize your tax-free bonds even when they are under lock-in. The process of demat is similar to that applicable to demat of shares. You need to submit duly filled in and signed DRF to your DP along with bond certificates. DP will forward the request to concerned issuer / its RTA and upon confirmation, credit will be received in your demat account.
Can I open an online Demat Account? [SEP] Yes, Nowdays, a lot of Depository Partcipants are giving this facility, such as Zerodha, whereby your complete eKYC is done online.
Can I open a single account to dematerialize securities owned individually and securities owned jointly along-with my wife? [SEP] No. The demat account must be opened in the same ownership pattern in which the securities are held in the physical form. For example, if one share certificate is in your name and another certificate has your name along with your wifes name, then you would need to open two demat accounts (one in your name and other in joint names of yourself and your wife).
Can I open more than one demat account? [SEP] Yes. You can open more than one account with the same DP. There is no restriction on the number of accounts you can open with a DP.
Can I open more than one demat account with only one DP in identical names? [SEP] Yes. You can open more than one demat account in identical names. There is no restriction on the number of demat accounts you can open with the same/other DPs..
Can I operate a joint account on "either or survivor" basis just like a bank account? [SEP] No. As per rules applicable at present, demat account cannot be operated on either or survivor basis like the bank account. Therefore, every instruction given for a jointly held demat account needs to be signed by all the joint holders.
Can I purchase government securities directly in demat form? [SEP] Yes. Now the market of government securities like bonds and Treasury Bills (T-Bills) is easily accessible to retail investors. In fact, RBI does keep a portion of new issues reserved for retail investors. You may invest in G-Sec by participating in auction of new securities or by purchasing already issued securities in secondary market. For both, you need to approach any authorized bank or primary dealer or stock broker, mentioning your demat accounts details (DP ID and Client ID).
Can I transfer all my securities to my account with another DP and close my demat account with one DP? [SEP] Yes. In case you have multiple demat accounts with one or more DPs and do not wish to continue with them, you may submit account closure form to your DP(s) in prescribed format. In the form, you are required to mention DP ID, DP name and Client ID of the account where you wish the balances to be transferred. Your DP will transfer all your securities as per your instruction and close your demat account. It is important to understand that a demat account cannot be closed if there is any balance in the account.
Can minor be a joint holder in another demat account? [SEP] No. Minor cannot be a joint holder in a demat account.
Can securities in odd lots be dematerialized? [SEP] Yes. Securities in odd lots can be dematerialized.
Can sms and email-statement  facility be available for all demat accounts? [SEP] Yes, a request form needs to be duly signed and submitted for the same by all holders, unlike in case of email statement request the form needs to be signed by the first holder of demat account only
Can someone else operate my demat account on my behalf on the basis of Power of Attorney (POA)? [SEP] Yes. If you authorize any person to operate your account by executing a power of attorney, that person can operate the account on your behalf. However, you need to submit a Notarised copy of the POA to your DP. Please ensure:
The POA holder meets the KYC norms
A notarised copy the POA is submitted, including the signature of the Donor and Donee. 
At least the minimum clauses advised by the depositories are held by the POA
ID proof of the power of attorney holder is furnished
Photograph is signed across
A Consent Letter is provided
Mobile number for the SMS facility is offered by Depository
However if the POA is submitted at the time of account opening, it is mandatory that the holder signs the account opening document.
Do dematerialized securities have certificate number, distinctive range number or certificate numbers? [SEP] No. Dematerialized securities do not have any of the numbers mentioned above. Securities held in demat form are fungible, which means that any share of an ISIN is similar to any other share of that ISIN
Does depository provision offer Transfer cum Closure cum Waiver facility? [SEP] Yes. Transfer cum Closure cum Waiver facility is available. It enables the below :
Shift your securities from your existing Depository Participant (DP) to another DP Account absolutely free of any charge. The existing account should be closed and the securities transferred to another account for taking this benefit.
Beneficiary Owners (BO) Account(s) at the transferee DP and at transferor DP are one and the same, i.e. identical in all respect. In case of Joint accounts, your Demat account should also be a joint account in the same sequence of ownership.
Do I have to dematerialize securities that I do not intend to sell? [SEP] The Depositories Act, 1996 gives investors an option to hold securities in physical form or demat form. Hence, if you do not intend to sell the securities, you may not dematerialize them. However, holding the securities in demat form entails numerous benefits and is therefore highly recommended. Further, there are existing restrictions on transfer of securities belonging to listed companies and unlisted public limited companies, if held in physical form. It may therefore be better to dematerialize the securities.
Do I have to keep any minimum balance of securities in my demat account? [SEP] No. The depository has not prescribed any minimum balance. You can maintain zero balance in your demat account.
For debit authorisation can a third party make the payment for all demat charges? [SEP] Yes, any third party holder can make the payment for all demat related charges apart from account holder himself.
How can existing Joint demat holders apply for Delivery Instruction booklet(DIB)? [SEP] Physical DIS Request is applicable for all existing joint demat account holders. Process is below:
The customer or authorized person can visit the DP branch and submit request for booklet through below three option
I. Request from booklet - No ID proof is required
II. Format shared by Demat servicing branch for DIS booklet - Self attested identity proof is required of all the holders (Demat account holders need to carry the original ID proof for verification)
iii. DIS request format attached in the welcome email sent to the customer at the time of account opening.- No ID proof is required
How can I avail the service of a depository? [SEP] A depository interfaces with the investors through its agents called Depository Participants (DPs). If an investor wants to avail the services offered by the depository, the investor has to open an account with a DP. This is similar to opening an account with any branch of a bank in order to utilise the banks services. Suggestions on how to select a DP are given in later part.
How can I dematerialize my securities certificates? [SEP] In order to dematerialize certificates, you need to open a demat account. Once the demat account has been opened, you need to fill up a Dematerialization Request Form in prescribed form and submit it to your DP along with the security certificates. Your DP will forward the demat request to the concerned issuer company or its Registrar and Transfer Agent for further processing. Once the request is confirmed by the concerned issuer company or its Registrar and Transfer Agent, it results in credit of electronic securities in the demat account of the respective investor. 
How can I shift or transfer my demat account from one DP to another DP? [SEP] For shifting or transfer of a demat account, you need to first open a new demat account where you want the balances to be transferred to (if you already have another demat account, then you may use it for this purpose, instead of opening a new account). Then you need to submit duly filled and signed ‘Account Closure Form’ to your existing DP. In the form, you should mention the details of the other demat account where you want the balances to be transferred. After verification of your request, your DP will arrange to transfer the balances to the desired account and then close the source account.
How can I subscribe to Sovereign Gold Bonds (SGB) in demat form? [SEP] The SGB offers a superior alternative to holding gold in physical form. Option to hold SGB in demat form makes it even better and convenient. The process to buy or subscribe to sovereign gold bonds in demat form is quite easy. All you need to do is to mention your DP ID and Client ID in your subscription form. Some banks offer online application facility also (if investor makes application online and does payment electronically, then some price discount is also available at present). Upon allotment by RBI, your demat account will credited with the requisite number of bonds.
How does Depository ensure that its DPs adhere to the stipulated requirements? [SEP] All the DPs are subjected to Depositories inspection at least once in a year. In addition, they need to engage an independent and qualified auditor to undertake audit of their depository operations. Report of such audit should be forwarded to the depository associated with the DP, twice a year. DPs are also inspected by SEBI.
How do I open an account with a Depository and will I be periodically informed about the movement in my electronic account? [SEP] You may open an account with a depository participant (DP) of your choice. As an investor you will interact with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) or Central Depository Services Limited. (CDSL) through your Depository Participant.Your DP will update your account after each transaction and would periodically furnish you with a statement of holding. You may verify this with them at the time of opening your electronic account.
How do I select a DP? [SEP] You can select your DP to open a demat account just like you select a bank for opening a savings account. Some of the important factors for selection of a DP can be:
Convenience - Proximity to your office/residence, business hours.
Comfort - Reputation of the DP, past association with the organization, whether the DP is in a position to give the specific service you may need?
Cost/ level of service - The service charges levied by DP and the service standards.
The DP network City/State wise.
How long does the dematerialization process take? [SEP] As per SEBIs guidelines, DP is required to process the demat request received by it within 7 days. Further, issuer company / its RTA may take up to 15 days to process the demat request received by them. Considering the time required for transmission of documents from DP to issuer company / RTA, dematerialization will normally take about 21 days.
How to Open a demat account? [SEP] Opening a demat account is quite simple. All you have to do is to approach a NSDL/CDSL DP, which will help you to complete the formalities. You need to fill up a form, submit PAN card and proof of address. In addition, you need to provide details of your bank account.After your demat account is opened, your DP will provide you DP ID and Client ID, a copy of your Client Master Report containing your demat account related details, tariff sheet and ‘Rights & Obligations of Beneficial Owner and Depository Participant’. DP ID is 8 characters long code, (example INXXXXXX) for NSDL-DP and (XXXXXXXXX) in case of CDSL-DP (where X resembles a number 0-9) to all DPs to identify them. Client ID is 8 digit long code used to identify the clients in the system. Combination of DP ID and Client ID makes your unique account number in the Depository System.Read moreYou should verify the Client Master Report to ensure that all your details have been recorded correctly in depository system. If you want to trade in shares etc. (i.e. buy or sell), you would also need to open a Trading / Broking account with any SEBI registered stockbroker. There are many DPs which offer 3-in-1 arrangement for the benefit of investors (3-in-1 is a combination of demat account, trading account and bank account).Now a days many DPs enable their clients to open demat account online, thus making the process paperless and extremely convenient.
How will I know that my DP has updated my account after each transaction? [SEP] You will get account statement showing the transactions and balances periodically to help you to monitor the happenings in your account. The depositories have a system in place wherein a notification on sms for all the debits & credits effecting your demat account.
If my depository account is with One Depository such as NSDL, can I receive my securities from an account holder having account with some other depository etither from  another  NSDL DP  or CDSL DP. [SEP] Yes. Inter depository transfers are possible.
If the demat request is not processed within the stipulated time, what to do? [SEP] Contact the RTA/your DP to look into the delay. A BO can also inform the Investor Grievances department of the Depository to look into the delay.
I have physical certificates with the same combination of names, but the sequence of names is different. In some certificates, I am the first holder and my wife is the second holder, whereas in some other certificates, my wife is the first holder and I am the second holder. Do I need to open two different accounts for the purpose of dematerialization of these certificates? [SEP] The joint holders are entitled to change the sequence of names by making a written request to the company. This does not constitute a transfer. Changing the sequence of joint holders is called Transposition. However, transposition facility can be availed for entire holdings in a folio and not allowed for part of the holdings. If the same set of joint holders hold securities in different sequence of names, then there is no need to open multiple demat accounts for dematerialization of such securities. Using Transposition cum Demat facility such securities held vide certificates in different combinations, can be dematerialized in one demat account. For this purpose, Dematerialization Request Form (DRF) and an additional form called Transposition cum Demat Form should be submitted to the DP.
In case of minors in whose name is demat account opened? [SEP] A Minor’s demat account is opened in minor’s name as per PAN card.
Is dematerialization of securities compulsory? [SEP] NO, You can continue to hold securities in physical form.
Is it compulsory to mention the ISIN of the security while filling up the DRF? [SEP] Yes. The ISIN of the security should be mentioned in the DRF, to ensure that the correct security is dematerialized. If, however, the investor does not know the ISIN, the same can be obtained from the Depository Participant.
Is it right not to mention execution date on DIS? [SEP] No. You should not submit delivery instruction slips (DIS) to your DP without mentioning the execution date. It should be the date on which you wish your account to be debited for the mentioned security and quantity thereof. In case of market instruction, it must be well within the date of payin. For off-market transfers, it may be a future date of your choice.
Is NSDL/CDSL  regulated by any government authority? [SEP] NSDL & CDSL  have been authorized to act as a securities depository by SEBI. Bothe the depositories are subject to periodical inspection by SEBI in addition to other applicable audits as per Companies Act, 2013.
Is there any charge for dematerialization of physical certificates? [SEP] CDSL does not levy any charge for dematerialization of securities. However, DPs may collect dematerialization charges together with postage / courier charges.
Is there any insurance cover taken for depository operations? [SEP] Depositories do obtain an insurance cover on behalf of all the DPs.
Is transfer deed required for dematerializing physical certificates? [SEP] No. There is no need to fill in a transfer deed. The physical certificates have to be accompanied by a DRF, which can be obtained from the DP.
What are different Types of demat accounts opened with Depository Partcipant? [SEP] Below are two types of demat accounts opened with a Depository Participant.
Resident Individual Demat accounts which includes 
Minor’s, Non-Resident and Foreign Nationals
The form for standalone Individual (Resident & Non-Resident) demat account opening is available on the DPs  website or 
Non Individual / Corporate Demat accounts which includes:-
Hindu Undivided Family (HUF), Domestic Corporate for Non Individual Entities like Sole Proprietorship, Partnership, Private Limited/ Limited Co., Association of Person, Foreign Insitutional Investors, Foreign Corporates, Escrow Demat account, Mutual Funds, Venture Capital Fund, Depository Receipts, Unclaimed Share Suspense account, Clearing Member (Pool Account), Commodities, Margin account etc
The form for standalone HUF/Non Individual / Corporate demat account is available on the DPs website. 
What are the benefits of opening a Demat Account? [SEP] a.No stamp duty (A tax levied on documents, stamp duty applies to documents like cheques, receipts, licenses and transaction records.) on transfer of securities held in Demat form.b.Auto credit of rights / bonus / public issues in your Demat Account through ECS ( Electronic Clearing Service. It is a mode by which funds are automatically debited to your account every month to pay or a certain bill or fee. It helps so you don’t have to remember every month to pay your regular bills. It is only done after a standing instruction is given by the account holder.)c. Easy access to your investments, statements through the Demat Tab on NetBanking (DP on Net)d. Settlement of securities are traded on exchanges and as well as off-market transactions.e. Shorter settlements enhance liquidity. Redemption of shares and Mutual funds allowed.Read moref. Allows for quicker transactions (Buy/Sale/Transfer) and higher efficiency in trading.g. Helps to hold shares and securities like Bonds, debentures, ETF, LIC, Mutual Funds etc in electronic formh. Helps in availing faster Loansi. Protects against risks like forgery, damage and loss (due to fire, theft, mutilation) pertaining to physical certificatesj. Automatic credit of shares created through during Mergers & Acquisitions of companiesk. Helps in de-materialization and re-materialization of securities
What are the benefits of participation in a depository? [SEP] The benefits of participation in a depository are:i. Immediate transfer of securities;ii. Elimination of risks associated with physical certificates such as bad delivery, fake securities, etc.;iii. Reduction in paperwork involved in transfer of securities;iv. Reduction in transaction cost;v. Nomination facility;vi. Change in address recorded with DP gets registered electronically with all companies in which investor holds securities, eliminating the need to correspond with each of them separately;vii. Transmission of securities is done by DP eliminating correspondence with companies;viii. Convenient method of consolidation of folios/accounts;ix. Holding investments in equity, debt instruments and Government securities in a single account;x. Automatic credit of shares in demat account, arising out of split / consolidation / merger etc.
What are the different types of Demat Fees and how is it charged? [SEP] Demat Transaction charges are monthly, and include NSDL and CDSL charges.
You will receive these details in your monthly statement.
De-materialisation charges are incurred monthly, and Annual Maintenance Charges are added at the expiry of every 12 months for the next year.
All charges are debited from the authorised Savings or Current Account.
What are the options for existing demat holders to apply for Delivery Instruction Booklet (DIB)? [SEP] The customer can place a request for Delivery Instruction Booklet (DIB) through the below two mode
· Netbanking (For exisitng Single Demat account Holders only)
· Physical DIS request to be submitted  to DP servicing branch (Optional For existing Single Demat holders not using Netbanking/ All Joint account holders)
What are the services provided by a Depository? [SEP] A Depository provides following services to investors through a DP:a. Demat Account Opening.b. Dematerialization, i.e. converting physical securities into electronic form.c. Rematerialization, i.e. converting electronic securities balances held in a BO account into physical form.d. To maintain record of holdings in the electronic form.e. Facilitate settlement of trades by exchanges / Clearing corporations by delivering / receiving underlying securities from / in BO accounts.f. Facilitate transfer of securities between BOs.g. Receiving electronic credit in respect of securities allotted by issuers under IPO or otherwise.h. Receiving non cash corporate benefits, such as, allotment of bonus and rights shares or any other non cash corporate benefits given by the issuers in electronic.i. Facilitate pledging of dematerialized securities.j. Freezing of the demat account for debits, credits, or both.k. Login facility to its clients, to access its demat account..l. Subscription/ Redemption of mutual fund units in demat form.
What can I do with my demat account? [SEP] There are numerous uses of your demat account. Few important things that you can do with your demat account are listed below –You may apply for IPOs and NFOs. Do not forget to mention your DP ID and Client ID correctly in the application form. Same demat account can be used to purchase and hold shares and other types of securities.You will automatically receive all corporate benefits (bonus, rights issue, etc.) in your demat account. Cash benefits like dividend declared by your company, interest or maturity amount payable on your bond investments etc. would be credited to bank account linked with your demat account. Please ensure correct bank account details are recorded in your demat account.You may use your demat account to avail loan against shares facility which is offered by many banks etc. to meet your financial requirements without requiring to sell the investments.You may convert all your investments in shares, bonds, debentures, government securities, sovereign gold bonds etc. held in paper form to demat form through your DP.Read moreYou may hold your mutual fund investments in the same demat account. Holding mutual fund units in demat account makes things a lot easier for you. You would be able to monitor your portfolio at one place through CAS. It also saves you from the need to engage with various mutual fund houses if you want to make any change in your personal information, for example, address or bank details or nominee, etc. You may subscribe to mutual fund units in demat form by simply mentioning your DP ID and Client ID in application form. Investment in mutual funds by way of SIP is also possible through your demat account. For redemption or repurchase of mutual fund units, you may give an instruction to your DP.You may participate in buyback offer by tendering your shares to company through your demat account.You may participate in securities lending and borrowing scheme by lending securities lying idle in your demat account and may earn market returns.
What do you mean by Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) and its Processing? [SEP] Delivery Instruction slips (DIS) are just like cheque leaves, but they must be clearly signed by all demat account holders. Make sure you keep them securely and submit on time for timely execution.Market Transactions should include:CMBP ID of your brokerCM name of your brokerMarket TypeSettlement NumberISIN NumberScrip NameQuantity in NumbersQuantity in WordsExecution DateOff-Market Transactions should include:DP IDDP NameClient IDRead moreISIN NumberScrip NameQuantity in NumbersQuantity in WordsExecution DatePlease note that you will also need to provide a reason for the Off-Market Transaction, along with a Consideration amount (if any).Securities Lending and Borrowing (SLB) should be submitted on the trading dayInter-depository Transactions involve a transfer of securities between two Demat Accounts held in two different depositories
What happens to the physical certificates after they are dematerialized ? [SEP] After dematerialization, physical certificates may be retained/destroyed by the Issuer / RTA.
What is a clearing member account and how is it different from a beneficiary account? [SEP] A registered member of any of the stock exchanges that have direct connectivity with the depositories holds a clearing member account or pool account. A Pool account is used by the members to hold securities received from clients and deliver them to clearing corporations. This account is also used to receive securities from the Clearing Corporations and distribute onwards to clients.
What is a demat account? [SEP] DEMAT account is a type of account that holds shares and securities in electronic form. DEMAT account is similar to a bank account, the only difference lies in the underlying asset held (DEMAT accounts hold shares while bank account hold money). It facilitates faster transactions and makes trade of securities extremely convenient
What is a depository? [SEP] A depository can be compared to a bank. A depository holds securities (like shares, debentures, bonds, Government Securities, units etc.) of investors in electronic form. Besides holding securities, a depository also provides services related to transactions in securities.
What is a Depository and how does it work? [SEP] A Depository is like a bank where securities are held in electronic form. There are two Depositories in India – National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
Under the Depositories Act, investors can use the services of these Depositories through Depository Participants (DP) such as HDFC Bank.HSBC BANK, ICICI BANK.
There are a number of benefits:
Settlement of securities are traded on exchanges and as well as off-market transactions
Shorter settlements enhance liquidity
No stamp duty (A tax levied on documents, stamp duty applies to documents like cheques, receipts, licenses and transaction records) on the transfer of securities held in Demat form Changing your address, registering a power of attorney and even signatures can be effected in Demat accounts by submitting requests along with the relevant documents to the Depository Participant
What is dematerialization? [SEP] Dematerialization is the process by which physical certificates of securities are converted into securities in electronic form by way of credit in investors demat account held with a DP. Dematerialization is change in form of holding, it does not result into change of ownership.
What is DRN? [SEP] DRN mean demat request number
What is eDIS? [SEP] eDIS (Electronic Delivery Instruction Slip) is a facility that allows you to sell your shares even if you have not submitted your POA (Power of Attorney).
What is in-person verification? [SEP] It is mandatory to establish the identity of the applicant at the time of opening account as per SEBI guidelines. This is done by the DP’s staff by verifying the affixed photograph on account opening form and the photo seen on document on PAN card with the person seeking to open the account. For Joint account holders, the ’in-person verification’ is required for all the holders.
What is meant by Freezing the account? How can I do this? [SEP] Any transaction in the demat account is possible only upon a valid instruction from the account holder. In addition, the entries in the depository software at DP’s end are possible through a maker checker system. Still in order to prevent any undesired transaction happening in the account, demat account holder may opt to freeze his / her demat account by submitting a written request to DP. The following types of freeze are available-
a. Freeze for debits only -
A demat account holder may freeze the account only for debits by submitting a freeze instruction to its DP. However, during the period of freeze, the account holder will continue to receive credits like bonus or credits arising out of any other corporate action.
b. Freeze for debits as well as credits -
An account holder may freeze the account for debits as well as credits. No debits and credits can be made in the account, unless the account holder issues unfreeze instruction. This facility is beneficial to clients who do not use their account for long period. By freezing their account for debits and credits, they can avoid undue credits to their accounts in addition to preventing debits.
c. Freeze particular ISIN(s) in the account -
An account holder may freeze a particular ISIN(s) (security of a specific company) either for ‘debit’ or ‘debit & credit’, without freezing the whole account. If this type of freeze facility is used, all other securities in the account can be debited or credited but the securities under the specific ISIN(s) will be frozen for ‘debit’ or ‘debit & credit’ respectively. The client will be able to use other securities lying in its demat account and also receive credits in the ISIN which has been frozen only for debit.
d. Freeze a specific number of securities held under an ISIN in an account-
An account holder may freeze a specific quantity of a specific security in an account.
What is RRN? [SEP] RRN means Remat Request Number
What is Standing Instruction given in the account opening form? [SEP] In demat account, debit or credit transactions are permitted only if it is duly authorized by the respective holder(s). As a Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) is required for every debit transfer in the demat account, a Receipt Instruction Slip is required for every credit transfer in the demat account. By giving a onetime standing instruction to your DP, you may avoid giving receipt instruction to your DP whenever a credit is expected in the account.
What is the procedure for dematerialization? [SEP] Following steps are involved in dematerialization of physical securities:• A Beneficiary Owner (BO) who wishes to dematerialize securities held by him in physical form has to submit duly filled and signed demat request form (DRF) to his Depository Participant (DP).• A separate DRF should be filled up for free securities and lock-in securities.• DP will verify the details and setup demat request in the system. The DP will then deface and mutilate the certificate and send the same along with the DRF to Issuer/ RTA.• On confirmation by the Issuer/ RTA, the BO’s account will be credited with the number of securities dematerialized.
What is the process for Closure of Demat Account ? [SEP] Closing an account requires the submission of a form signed by all members. If there is any holding in the account this should be transferred before closure, which requires a valid Demat Account number.
If there is a pending de-materialisation, the Account cannot be closed. However Demat Account holders can request the DP to Cancel their Pending Demat Request with the Depository Participant.
Please also ensure there are no pending corporate actions, as this could mean the Registrar or Company involved cannot credit the securities as required.
What precautions does depositories take to protect the data in the depository system? [SEP] Data security and data integrity are considered critical and given highest importance by depositories. The depositories follow highest standards in this regard. DPs are also required to follow the best practices to ensure that clients’ data and assets remain protected.
Following are some of the measures adopted by depositories in this regard -
a. Stringent requirement of daily back up of data at DP level as well as depository level.
b. Backup is stored locally and also at a remote site by DPs and depository both on a daily basis.
c. Depositories  maintains a backup site as well as a Disaster Recovery Site to ensure continuing of operations in any case of disruption.
d. Best industry practices are followed with respect to data handling and cyber security framework.
e. Fall back mechanism for critical equipment, communication systems and utilities used for depository infrastructure.
f. Data is stored in state of art data center managed by professional and qualified specialists.
g. Logical and physical access barriers are adopted at various levels.
h. Maker / Checker system is followed for critical data entry in depository system.
i. Dcepositories have obtained the necessary ISO certification (for Information Security Management)  and (for Business Continuity Management Systems), indicating compliance with best industry practices.
What precautions should I take before submitting my certificates to DP for dematerialization? [SEP] You should take care of following -Verify that you are the registered owner of the securities.Pattern of ownership (name sequences) of securities is same as that in demat account from which you wish to initiate the demat request.Verify that securities you wish to dematerialize are indeed available for demat.Verify that the RTA has not stopped services to the company of which you are holding the shares. This can be searched at the depository portal.After above steps, you may mark the share certificates that you wish to dematerialize with words Surrendered for Dematerialisation. Your DP will provide you the rubber stamp to be used for this purpose.After ensuring that the certificates have been duly marked as above, you may submit the DRF completed in all respects to your DP along-with the share certificates for further processing.
What should I do if I want to open a demat account? [SEP] Once you have identified and decided to open an account with a particular DP, you may approach that DP and fill up an account opening form. You would be required to provide your photograph and self-attested copy of following documents -
Please remember to take original documents to the DP for verification. In case you are unable to produce original document for verification, then photocopy should be attested by any authorized entity, like a public notary. Your DP may ask additional proof of identity / address to meet its requirements in addition to above-mentioned. 
What should I do if there is any discrepancy in my account statement? [SEP] In case of any discrepancy in the account statement, you must immediately contact your DP. If the discrepancy cannot be resolved at the DP level, you should approach the concerned depository who is associated with the depository. 
Whats the Process of Transfer cum Closure cum Waiver (TCW): [SEP] A. Customers who wish to submit closure request [(Annexure Q)] need to come ‘In person’ – Any one of Demat Account holder(s) to be present at the time of submitting the transfer cum closure request. 
his requirement would also be applicable in case of NRI customers. In case of corporate Accounts, any one of the Authorised signatories will have to visit the DP personally.
B. Signatures of Demat holder(s) to be affixed in presence of the DP official (space provided in Closure request)
C Demat Account holder (any holder) signed in presence of DP staff.
D. Copy of Client master Report (NSDL - CML) or Crystal Report (CDSL) of the target Account with another participant where the securities are to be transferred. This has to be stamped and signed by the target DP
E. Customer needs to surrender unused DIS duly cancelled – In case the customer informs that he has exhausted the DIB booklet / misplaced / not traceable and he still wants to close the Account , then ‘In person verification’ to be carried out for ALL the joint holders.& customer needs to affix signatures against the relevant option in the closure request
F. DP to cancel and destroy the unused physical slips in case submitted by the customer. DP to record the same in “DIS destruction register”
G. Self attested copy of valid Proof of identity viz PAN card, passport, Voter ID card, Driving license etc. to be submitted. This document needs to be stamped as “Original seen and verified” by DP official.
H. Original Client master List (CML for NSDL) or Original Crystal Report (CR for CDSL) of the target Demat Account duly signed and stamped by the target DP official.
I. Pattern of Holder(s) need to be match with Source Demat Account.
What to do if I lose my account statement? [SEP] There is no need to worry. You may simply request the depository to provide your statement for the desired period once again. Using online facilities on the web or mobile apps  you may view / download account statement as and when you want.
What type of instruments are available for demat ? [SEP] All types of equity/debt instruments viz. Equity shares, Preference Shares, Partly paid shares, Bonds, Debentures, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposit, Government Securities (G-SEC), etc. irrespective of whether these instruments are listed / unlisted / privately placed can be dematerialized with any of the depositories (i.e NSDL/CDSL), if they have been admitted with the concerned depository..
What will be the charges for account opening and other depository related transactions? [SEP] Depositories  charges the DPs and not the investors. Depositories  charges to its DPs are fixed and are based on the usage of depositories  system. Complete details of depositories charges payable by the DPs are available at the respective websites of depositories.
The DP charges its client for the services offered. The charges that the DP will be charging you for various services are mentioned in the Schedule of Charges which forms a part of the ‘Rights and Obligations of Beneficial Owner and Depository Participant’. You may keep a copy of this for your future reference. You can also get a comparative list of DP charges from the respective websites of the depositories.
Your DP may revise charges by giving you 30 days notice in advance.
What will happen if my DP goes bankrupt or stops operation? [SEP] In a rare event of your DP going bankrupt or closing its operations, the interests of the demat account holders are fully protected. In such a situation, you would be given option to transfer your balances to any other DP of your choice or rematerialize the same.
Whether all the DPs are same? [SEP] Depositories have specified certain basic eligibility criteria for becoming a DP. The criteria are similar or even higher in certain respects than the corresponding provisions of SEBI regulations. All the DPs are same in the sense they are appointed by Depositories (NSDL/CDSL) only after grant of Certificate of Registration by SEBI to them. However, the type of services offered, service standards and charges for the services rendered may differ among DPs.
Whether different securities issued by the same Issuer will have same ISIN? [SEP] No. Different securities issued by the same issuer will have different ISIN code.
Who is a Beneficial Owner (BO) of the securities? [SEP] The investor whose securities are held in electronic form in a demat account opened with a depository through a Depository Participant is called as ‘Beneficial Owner’ (BO). All the benefits as a result of the holding the securities are given to such beneficial owner.
Who is a DP? [SEP] The term "DP" means  Depository Participant i.He is an agent of the depository who is authorized to offer depository services to investors and is registered as a DP with SEBI. Financial institutions, banks, custodians, stockbrokers and other types of intermediaries specified under SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996, complying with the requirements prescribed by SEBI/ Depositories can be registered as DP. An investor will always interact with a DP for the services and cannot directly approach the depository for any services except for Redressal of Grievances.
Who is an Issuer? [SEP] An “Issuer” means any entity, such as corporates, state or central government organizations, issuing securities which can be held in depository in electronic form.
Who is an RTA? [SEP] An RTA i.e. Registrar and Transfer Agent is an agent of the issuer. RTA acts as an intermediary between the issuer and depository for providing services such as Dematerialization, Rematerialization, Initial Public Offer and Corporate actions.
Who is registered owner of Securities? [SEP] When securities of a company are held in physical form by an investor, name of the investor is recorded in the books of the company as a ‘Registered Owner’ of the Securities. Each certificate is identified by Folio number, certificate number and distinctive range numbers. When physical securities are converted in to electronic form, the depository becomes ‘Registered owner” in the books of the company and investors name is removed from books of the company. Since depository is holding such shares as a custodian or a guardian it cannot claim any benefit or it is not liable for any loss as a result of the holdings.
Why should I give my bank account details at the time of account opening? [SEP] Providing bank account details at the time of demat account opening is mandatory. These bank details are communicated to issuer companies / RTAs for the purpose of crediting any amount payable to you (such as dividend, interest or maturity payment or redemption amount) directly in your bank account. It is therefore suggested that you provide details of your active bank account in the account opening form. Later, in case of change therein, please remember to inform your DP.
Can a minor be a nominee? [SEP] Yes, a minor can be a nominee. Whenever, a minor is mentioned as a nominee in a demat account, details of his / her guardian should also be mentioned.
Can a minor nominate? [SEP] No. Minor cannot nominate either directly or through his / her guardian.
Can a Nominee or Joint Holder be added in a Minor Demat Account? [SEP] No, Nomination and Joint holding both cannot be done in a Minor Demat Account.
Can a non individual / corporate demat account avail nomination facility? [SEP] No, Nomination cannot be done incase of non individual / corporate demat account.
Can a Non resident become nominee in any Resident Demat account? [SEP] Yes, any individual –Resident or Non – Resident can become nominee in any resident account.
Can a NRI be a nominee? [SEP] Yes, NRI can be a nominee in a demat account subject to the provision of foreign exchange regulations in force.
Can a NRI nominate? [SEP] Yes, NRI can nominate directly. However, the power of attorney holder cannot nominate on behalf of NRI.
Can joint holders nominate? [SEP] Yes. Nomination is permitted for accounts with joint holders. However, in case of death of any of the joint holder(s), the securities will be transmitted to the surviving holder(s). Only in the event of death of all the joint holders, the securities will be transmitted to the nominee (if nomination given, else to legal heir).
Can separate nomination be made for each security held in a demat account? [SEP] No. Nomination can be made account wise and not security wise. This means, in case of death of account holder, all the securities lying in the demat account, are liable to be transmitted to nominee(s) in the pre-registered proportion. If you wish different nominees for different securities, then you may consider keeping the securities in different demat accounts and mention nominee(s) as per your choice.
Can the nominee be changed? [SEP] Yes, the nomination can be changed anytime by the account holder(s) by simply filling up the Nomination form once again and submitting it to the DP.
Can there be more than one nominee? [SEP] Yes, at present up to three nominations can be made for one demat account. In case, two or three nominees are mentioned, then it is also required to mention the proportion (%) in which various securities are desired to be transmitted upon death of the account holder.
How many nominees can be max updated in a single individual demat account? [SEP] Maximum three individuals can be nominated in a single demat account Also the percentage of their share can be specified accordingly.
Is it necessary to have nominee in the demat account? [SEP] Nomination is not mandatory for demat account utpo 31st March 2023. However, it is very much recommended to have nominee mentioned in the demat account. In the unfortunate case of death of sole account holder, it makes the process of transmission very easy and fast. In you do not wish to mention any nominee at the time of account opening, you are required to state that I/We do not wish to make a nomination.
Is nomination mandatory in demat account opening? [SEP] No, nomination is not mandatory till 31-03-2023 as per SEBI.. Still it is advisable for all demat accounts especially single holders in order to eliminate the cumbersome legal documents and procedure for transmission of shares and the cost involved. You need one witness while submitting the nomination form for updation in account.
Is witness mandatory while updating nominee in individual demat account? [SEP] Yes, Details and signature of one witness is mandatory for nominees updation in demat account.
What documents of nominee are required for updation of nomination in account? [SEP] Nominee can either provide his/ her Photgraph & Signature, or Pan number, or Aahaar Number (along with consent declaration) or copy of bank savings bank account or any Demat account number of Nominee.
What is the maximum number of nominees that can be updated in a single demat account whether held singly or jointly? [SEP] Maximum three individuals can be nominated along with the percentage share of proportion for each.
What is the meaning of ‘Nomination’? [SEP] Nomination is a simple process by which a holder of securities communicates his / her preference regarding who should receive these securities in case of his / her death. Process of nomination in respect of demat account can be done at the time of opening of demat account or any time later.
What is the procedure for appointing a nominee? [SEP] The demat account holders need to mention the information related to nominee(s) in the account opening form at the time of account opening. Up to three different individuals may be mentioned as nominee in one demat account.
In case, nomination was not done at the time of account opening or was done but account holder(s) wants to change it anytime later, then a Nomination form needs to be filled up and provided to DP.
What would happen if there is no nominee in the demat account held by sole holder? [SEP] In such a case, the securities would be transmitted to the account of legal heir(s), as may be determined by an order of the competent court. Following documents are required for this purpose -Duly filled in Transmission Form.Copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.A copy of the Succession certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer or An order of a court of competent jurisdiction where the deceased has not left a Will or A copy of the Probate of Will or Letter of Administration duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.In case the account of the claimant is not with the same Participant, copy of Client Master Report of the account of the claimant is also required (certified by the concerned DP).Read moreHowever, if the value of securities to be transmitted is below ?5,00,000/- (on the day of application for transmission), the DP may process the request based on the following documents:Duly filled in Transmission Form.Copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.Letter of Indemnity (in prescribed format).Affidavit (in prescribed format) andNo Objection Certificate(s) in prescribed format or Family Settlement Deed.In case the account of the claimant is not with the same Participant, copy of Client Master Report of the account of the claimant is also required (certified by the concerned DP).
Who can avail Nomination facility and what is the process? [SEP] Nomination can be made only by individuals holding beneficiary owner accounts on their own behalf singly or jointly. Non- individuals including society, trust, body corporate, partnership firm, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, Holder of power of attorney cannot nominate. If the account is held jointly, all joint holders will sign the nomination form. Nomination in respect of the beneficiary owner account stands rescinded upon closure of the beneficiary owner account. Similarly, the nomination in respect of the securities shall stand terminated upon transfer of the securities. Transfer of securities in favour of a Nominee shall be valid discharge by the Depository against the legal heir. The cancellation of nomination can be made by individuals only holding beneficiary owner accounts on their own behalf singly or jointly by the same persons who made the original nomination. On cancellation of the nomination, the nomination shall stand rescinded and the Depository shall not be under any obligation to transfer the securities in favour of the Nominee. A minor can be nominated. In that event, the name and address of the Guardian of the minor nominee shall be provided by the beneficial owner. Birth certificate of minor nominee, Guardian proof of identity is required.
Who can be a nominee? [SEP] Only an individual can be a nominee. Non individuals like society, trust, body corporate, partnership firm, Hindu Undivided Family cannot be a nominee in the demat account.
Who can nominate? [SEP] Nomination can be made only by individuals holding demat account singly or jointly. Non-individual holders like society, trust, body corporate, partnership firm , Hindu Undivided Family and holder of Power of Attorney cannot nominate.
Transmission in Demat Acts [SEP] Please select an option from Transmission in Demat Acts
What does transmission mean in relation to demat accounts? [SEP] Transmission is the process of law by which securities belonging to a deceased account holder are transferred to surviving joint holder(s) / legal heirs / nominee of the deceased account holder. Process of transmission in case of dematerialized holdings is relatively convenient as the transmission formalities for all securities held in a demat account can be completed by submitting the requisite documents to DP. There is no need to approach various companies for this purpose, as is required when securities are held in physical form.
What do you mean by Transmission-cum-Demat form? [SEP] In case security certificates are held jointly with a person who is deceased, the surviving holders can submit the certificates along with an original / notarized / gazette attested copy of the death certificate of the deceased and a ‘Transmission cum Demat’ form. The combination of names of the surviving holders on the certificates and on the account may be in the same or reverse order.
Ensure that an application, in the required format, is submitted along with each DRF.
What is the meaning of Transmission cum Demat? [SEP] Transmission cum Demat is a very useful facility when one of the joint holders mentioned in securities certificate (held in physical form) has died and remaining holder(s) wish to have the securities transmitted in their name in demat form. Using this facility the twin objectives of deletion of name of one of the deceased joint holders and dematerialization of securities can be achieved in a single step.
What is the procedure for transmission in case of death of one or more joint holder(s)? [SEP] In such a case, the securities would be transmitted to the surviving holder(s), irrespective of the nomination. For example, if the account is in the joint names of Mr. A, Mr. B and Mrs. C, in the event of the death of Mr. B, the securities will be transmitted to surviving holders that is, Mr. A and Mrs. C. The surviving holder(s) would need to submit the following documents to the DP:
Duly filled in Transmission Form.
Copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.
After verifying the above documents and satisfying himself, the DP will transmit the securities to the surviving holder(s) account and will close the account of the deceased
What is the procedure for transmission of securities to the nominee in case of the death of the sole account holder? [SEP] In case of the death of the sole holder, for transmission of securities, the nominee needs to submit duly filled-in transmission form along with a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or a Gazetted Officer. In case the account of the claimant is not with the same Participant, copy of Client Master Report of the account of the claimant (certified by the concerned DP) is also required. After verification of these documents, the DP will transmit the securities to the demat account of the nominee.
What is the process of Transmission in case of death of account holder? [SEP] In the case where an account holder has passed away, it is possible to transfer securities to surviving 
Surviving Holders
Can have the securities transmitted into their accounts by maintaining or opening the Demat Account in the same holding pattern, excluding the deceased holder.
Nominees
In the case of death of the sole or all holders of a Demat Account, and if a valid nomination is registered, the nominee can make a request. This should be submitted with a notarized copy of the Death Certificate/s.
Legal Heir(s)
If there are no surviving joint holders, and no nomination registered, the transmission can be effected to the account of the legal heir. A Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or letter of administration duly notarized should be submitted.
Transposition [SEP] Please select an option from Transposition
What is meant by Transposition cum Demat form? [SEP] In case security certificates are held jointly but the order of names on the certificates do not match exactly with the order of names in which the Demat Account is held with the bank, then the holders can submit a Transposition cum Demat form along with the DRF and certificates to enable Demat of these certificates into such a Demat Account. 
.g. Certificates held by A & B or A & B & C can be dematted into a Demat account held by B & A or C & B & A respectively.
Pledge of Securities [SEP] Please select an option from Pledge of Securities
After repayment of the loan taken, how should I get back my pledge securities as free balance in my demat account? [SEP] Upon repayment of loan, pledgor should submit a duly filled in ‘Pledge Closure Initiation Slip’ to its DP. Once executed, the information is forwarded to DP of the pledgee. The pledgee then may submit ‘Pledge Closure Confirmation Instruction’ to its DP. (Alternatively, the pledgee may give instruction to its DP to close the pledge without waiting for request from the pledgor).
Once pledge is closed, the block created on the underlying securities is removed and they become available once again for disposal by the erstwhile pledgor.
Can I change the securities offered in a pledge? [SEP] Yes, if the pledgee (lender) agrees, you may change the securities offered in a pledge. For this purpose, a new request for creation of pledge will have to be given by the pledgor and the existing pledge needs to be closed.
How will the distribution of bonus shares for pledged shares happen? [SEP] If the shares are in pledged status on the record date, bonus shares are credited to pledgor’s account with pledge marked in favour of the pledgee. Later when the pledge is closed, all the shares (including the bonus) will be credited to the pledgor’s account as free balances. In case of invocation of pledge, all the shares (including the bonus) will be moved to pledgee’s account.
What is process for Freezing/De- freezing in demat account? [SEP] It’s possible to freeze your Demat Account at (a)Account level,(b) ISIN (International Securities Identification Number-. It is a unique 12-character alpha-numerical code for a security so you can trade in that security. Securities for which ISINs are issued include bonds, commercial paper, equities and warrants.) level and (c) Quantity level by submitting a freeze request signed by all the account holders.
For De-freezing the above level freeze a separate de freeze request in prescribed format is required.
What is the difference between Pledge and Hypothecation? [SEP] In depository system, there is no difference between pledge and hypothecation except that pledge can be invoked by the lender (pledgee). Whereas, in case of hypothecation, for invocation to take place, consent of borrower (hypothecator) is also required.
What is the effect of creation of pledge on the securities? [SEP] Once the pledge instruction is confirmed in depository system, the underlying securities are blocked in the demat account of pledgor. Until this block remains, pledgor is disabled from disposing of those securities.
What is the meaning of pledging of shares? [SEP] Pledging is basically committing the shares held by a person (pledgor) in favour of another person (pledgee) as a security or collateral for the exposure granted by pledgee. Generally, shares are pledged by the concerned shareholder for taking loan against shares.
What is the process and checks to Pledge Securities? [SEP] Please note the following details at time of Pledging Securities with the bank
Demat Accounts of both the pledgor (borrower) and the pledgee (lender) should be in the same depository.
The Pledgor must initiate the pledge by submitting us the Pledge Request Form with the details of the securities to be pledged 
The pledgee should confirm the request through his DP. 
Post this, the securities are pledged and will lie in the pledgor’s account in Pledge status.
Please note that all the financial transactions between the pledgor and the pledgee are handled outside the depository system.
What is the process followed by DP for Pledging of Securities & its closure? [SEP] Pledging of Securities include the below steps:-
a.Pledge Creation --The Pledgor must initiate the pledge by submitting the Pledge Request Form with the details of the securities to be pledged 
b. Pledge Confirmation -- The pledgee(s) should confirm the request through their DP.
c. Pledge Closure
Any one of the below two options can be excerised for pledge closure- 
a)The Pledgee(s) can close the pledge through the ‘Unilateral’ closure via their Demat Account for freeing the shares in the Pledgor’s Demat Account
b)The Pledgor needs to submit the Pledge Closure request to his DP, which will be confirmed by the Pledgees DP for freeing the shares of the Pledgor
Invocation of Pledge
If a Pledgee(s) wishes to take securities into their Demat Account (typically in case of default by the Pledgor) they can invoke the shares without any further instruction from the Pledgor.
What should I do if I want to pledge shares held in my demat account for availing loan against securities facility offered by my bank? [SEP] The procedure is as follows:
You need to arrive at a deal with the bank in terms of loan amount, tenure, rate of interest and kind of securities offered as collaterals, etc. The commercial aspects of such deal are subject matter of mutual negotiation and hence outside the purview of Depository.
Both of you (pledgor) and bank / lender (pledgee) must have demat account with the same depository (with same or different DPs).
You as pledgor need to initiate the pledge by submitting a duly filled up ‘Pledge Initiation Instruction Slip’ to your DP.
Once your DP processes your instruction, the details can be seen (or searched) by the DP of the bank / lender (pledgee). Then Pledgee needs to give duly filled in ‘Pledge Confirmation Instruction Slip’ to its DP. (Alternatively, pledgee may opt to have automatic pledge confirmation facility in its demat account). Upon execution of such instruction, the pledge will be created in the depository system.
Who will receive dividend on the pledged securities? [SEP] The pledgor continues to be the beneficial owner of the underlying securities during the period of pledge. Therefore, all the corporate benefits declared by the company during this period belong to pledgor. The pledgee will get the benefits if pledge is invoked and on record date, the shares remain in pledgee’s account.
Q&A for NRI's [SEP] Please select an option from Q&As for NRI
Can a DP ask for RBI permission for executing instructions for purchase or sale? [SEP] An individual NRI cannot purchase under PIS shares exceeding 5% of the paid up capital of a company. The onus of monitoring this limit is that of the designated authorised dealer. Shares purchased under PIS scheme can be sold only through a stock exchange. See the rules explained under Q.No. 19. No permission is required from RBI to purchase or sell under Portfolio Investment Scheme.
Can an Non Resident Indian be appointed as nominee?  [SEP] A resident Indian or an NRI can be a nominee, subject to exchange control regulations in force from time to time. Similarly, an NRI can nominate a resident Indian or another NRI as a nominee.
Can an NRI nominate or be nominated in depository account? Whether such nominee can be person resident in India? [SEP] Yes.
Can an NRI purchase or sell shares or convertible debentures on a stock exchange in India on repatriation or non-repatriation basis under portfolio investment scheme? [SEP] NRIs / PIOs can purchase / sell shares / convertible debentures of Indian companies on Stock Exchanges under the Portfolio Investment Scheme. The rules relating to this scheme are as given belowShares purchased under PIS on Stock Exchange shall be sold on stock exchanges only. Prior approval of RBI is required if such shares are proposed to be transferred either by way of gift or under private arrangement to a non-resident/resident.These trades can be done only through a registered broker on a recognised stock exchangeNRI shall designate a branch of an authorised dealer and route all his/her transactions through this branch of the authorised dealer.Read moreNRI takes delivery of the shares purchased and gives delivery of shares sold.NRI shall abide by the directions given by RBI/SEBI or such authority if the transaction results in the breach of ceilings stipulated for NRI holding in the company/scheme.The sale of shares will be subject to payment of applicable taxes.An NRI or a PIO can purchase shares up to 5% of the paid up capital of an Indian company. All NRIs / PIOs (also the OCBs who had purchased shares under the earlier scheme) taken together cannot purchase more than 10% of the paid up value of the company. (This limit can be increased by an Indian company to 24% by passing a General Body resolution).
Can an NRI purchase securities by subscribing to public issue? What are the permissions/approvals required? [SEP] Yes. The issuing company is required to issue shares to NRI on the basis of specific or general permission from GoI/RBI. Therefore, individual NRI need not obtain any permission.
Can Non Resident customer submit non face to face address change? [SEP] Yes, Non resident can submit Non Face to Face modification request like address change i.e. customer needs to send the address change form, to their DP alongwith self attested documents which should also be attested by any 1 of these entities: 
a.Notary Public, 
b. Any Court, Magistrate, Judge, 
c. Local Banker (Name of the Bank official and designation stamp to be affixed), 
d. Indian Embassy / Consulate General of the country where the NRI / FN is residing.
???????
Can Non- residents open NRE / NRO Demat? [SEP] Yes, Non-residents Indian can open Demat,  but they need to have similar bank account with same bank i.e. NRE savings account needs to be linked to NRE Demat account for all charges and transactions. Similarly NRO savings accounts can be linked only to NRO Demat account only. NREPIS account to be linked with NRE trading account and NRO special securities account to be linked with NRO trading account
Can NRIs invest in shares, debentures and units of mutual funds in India? [SEP] NRIs are permitted to make direct investments in shares/ debentures of Indian companies/ units of mutual fund. They are also permitted to make portfolio investments i.e. purchase of share / debentures of Indian Companies through stock exchange. These facilities are granted both on repatriation and non-repatriation basis.
Can securities purchased under repatriable and non-repatriable category be held in a single demat account? [SEP] No. An NRI must open separate demat accounts for holding repatriable and non-repatriable securities.
Can US and Canada Citizens open Demat? [SEP] Yes, US and Canada Citizens can open Demat account on separate AOF form fulfilling the below conditions:
1) Customer to be present in India for account opening. Only Face to Face account opening will be allowed
2) Indian address proof is mandatory for communication and should be recorded on account opening form
3) Special designated form has been designed for US/CANADA based NRIs. Same should be used.
Copies of the supporting  ID and address proof documents  should be "verified with original " by any one of the following entities viz; authorized officials of overseas branches of Schedule Commercial Banks registered in India, Notary Public, Court, Magistrate, Judge, Indian Embassy / Consulate General of the country where the client is residing
Can we open Non Face to Face non-resident NRE/NRO Demat ? [SEP] Yes, for non-face to face accounts opening all the above mentioned documents are required but clients IPV column on AOF needs to be left BLANK  and all documents need to be attested by anyone of the following:- Notary Public, Any court of law, Magistrate. Judge, Local Banker with Bank Seal, Name, Designation, Employee Code of the Person doing attestation or lastly by Indian Embassy / Consulate General of the country.
Does an NRI need any RBI permission to open a demat account? [SEP] No permission is required from RBI to open a demat account. However, credits and debits from demat account may require general or specific permissions as the case may be, from designated authorised dealers.
Does an NRI require any permission to receive bonus/rights shares? [SEP] No.
Does an NRI require RBI permission for dematerialiation/rematerialisation of securities? [SEP] No special permission is required. Holding securities in demat only constitutes change in form and does not need any special permission. However, only those physical securities which already have the status as NR- Repatriable / NR- Non-Repatriable can be dematerialised in the corresponding Depository Accounts.
How do I trade (buy / sell) in electronic form? [SEP] You may buy and sell securities in electronic form through the depository by coordinating with your broker and your DP. Such transactions would be simpler and faster. Payments for such transactions would be made in the same way as is done for physical certificates. Securities purchased in electronic form are credited to your account with no formalities of filling transfer forms or applying to the Company for registration. All such transactions are exempt from stamp duty and accordingly, no share transfer stamps are required to be affixed.Such transactions are not routed through the Company and the debit/credit takes place directly in the Depository System. However, corporate benefits would be paid by the Company to the person holding such securities on the Record date/Book closure date, as applicable.
If NRI/PIO desires to make investments under different schemes, can he hold all such securities in a single demat account? [SEP] No. Securities received against investments under Foreign Direct Investment scheme (FDI), Portfolio Investment scheme (PIS) and Scheme for Investment on non - repatriation basis have to be credited into separate demat accounts. Investment under PIS could be on repatriation or non - repatriation basis. Investment under FDI scheme is on repatriation basis.
If the Standing Instruction is “N” in an NRI Demat Account, then how can customer get credit of shares allotted through Auto Corporate action without opting for a PIS Account?  [SEP] Corporate benefits may be in the form of rights, bonus, etc. These are automatically credited to the Demat Account if the Standing Instruction is “N” in NRI Demat account.
In case a non-resident Indian becomes a resident in India, will he/she be required to change the status of his/her holding from Non-Resident to Resident? [SEP] Yes. It is the responsibility of the NRI to inform the change of status to the designated authorised dealer branch, through which the investor had made the investments in Portfolio Investment Scheme and the DP with whom he/she has opened the demat account. Subsequently, a new demat account in the resident status will have to be opened, securities should be transferred from the NRI demat account to resident account and then close the NRI demat account.
In case a person who is resident in India becomes a non-resident, will he/she be required to change the status  of his/her holding from Resident to Non-Resident? [SEP] As per section 6(5) of FEMA, NRI can continue to hold the securities which he/she had purchased as a resident Indian, even after he/she has become a non resident Indian, on a non-repatriable basis.
In case a resident customer migrates abroad can he still use his existing savings  or it needs be converted to non resident accounts.? [SEP] As per section 6(5) of FEMA, NRIs can continue to hold the securities (on a non-repatriable basis) that they had purchased when they were resident Indians, even after they have become non-resident Indians.
Yes, once resident customer shifts abroad, firstly he needs to convert his existing savings bank account to NRO savings account. Thereafter he can convert his existing resident demat account status to NRO Demat account by filling a conversion form and submitting necessary documents. He needs to close existing resident trading account and open a new NRO trading account. Additionally customer can even open NRE savings account, NREPIS account separately linked to NRE demat and trading account. 
What are the options to update FATCA or Extended KYC in demat account? [SEP] The demat account holder needs to login in netbanking and fill his FATCA details in option Extended KYC updation option. Else the same can also be submitted by filling up a physical form at any DP servicing branch.
What is a designated branch? [SEP] Reserve Bank has authorised a few branches of each authorised dealer to conduct the business under Portfolio Investment Scheme on behalf of NRIs. These branches are the main branches of major commercial banks. NRIs will have to route their applications through any of the designated authorised dealer branches who have authorisation from Reserve Bank.
What is an Overseas Corporate Body [OCB]? [SEP] Overseas Corporate Body means a company, partnership firm, society and other corporate body owned directly or indirectly to the extent of at least sixty percent by Non-Resident Indians and includes overseas trust in which not less than sixty percent beneficial interest is held by Non-Resident Indians directly or indirectly but irrevocably.
OCBs were debarred from Portfolio Investment Scheme w.e.f November 29, 2001. OCBs have been banned as a class of investor w.e.f September 16, 2003. However, they have been permitted to continue to hold the securities acquired by them prior to these dates. Accordingly OCBs may open a demat account, however it can be only for the purpose of dematerializing the existing holdings.
What is a Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) account and is it mandatory for NR to open it? [SEP] Its not mandatory to open PIS account to open the demat account. The standing instruction will be "NO" for the NRE demat account opened without NRE PIS account. A Non- Resident Indian (NRI) may acquire securities or units from a recognized Stock Exchange in India on repatriation basis under the Portfolio Investment Scheme(PIS), subject to the terms and conditions specified in Schedule " 3" of FEMA (Transfer or Issue of Security by a person Resident outside India). Hence an NRI intending to buy and sell shares / convertible debentures of an Indian company through a registered broker on a recognized stock exchange in India on repatriation basis(NRE), needs to open the NREPIS account. As per the process followed by the bank if an NRI intending to buy and sell shares / convertible debentures of an Indian company through a registered broker on a recognized stock exchange in India on Non- repatriation basis (NRO), needs to open the NRO special securities account along with the NRO savings bank account. 
What is Portfolio Investment Scheme? [SEP] Under this scheme, NRIs are permitted to acquire shares/debentures of Indian companies or units of domestic Mutual Funds through the stock exchange(s) in India.
Investment can be made both on repatriation or non-repatriation basis. For making investment on repatriation basis, it will be necessary to make payments by way of inward remittance or by debit to the NRE / FCNR account of the NRI / PIO. Investment on non-repatriation basis can also be made by way of inward remittance or by debit to the NRE / FCNR / NRO accounts.
The sale proceeds of the repatriable investments can be credited to the NRE / NRO accounts of the NRI / PIO at the option of the investor, whereas the sale proceeds of non-repatriable investment can be credited only to NRO accounts.
The sale of shares will be subject to payment of applicable taxes.
What is the procedure for making applications for Portfolio Investment Scheme? [SEP] The application is to be submitted to a designated branch of an authorised dealer in India in the prescribed form. No permission is required from RBI.
What type of bank account details is to be given at the time of account opening and subsequently [by way of change of details]? [SEP] The following bank accounts may be given
For non-repatriable - NRO [dividend/interest is repatriable]
For repatriable - NRE
The above details recorded by the DP in the demat account may be used by the Issuer to directly credit dividend or interest.
(Dividend/interest received on Investments made on repatriation and non - repatriation basis under Portfolio Investment Scheme is not an eligible credit to NRE (PIS) Account and NRO (PIS) Account respectively).
Where can an NRI/PIO open a demat account? [SEP] NRI/PIO can open a demat account with any  Depository Participant [DP] of NSDL/CDSL The NRI/PIO needs to mention the type [NRI as compared to Resident] and the sub-type [Repatriable or Non-Repatriable] in the account opening form collected from the DP.
Whether NRI can apply through more than one authorised dealer? [SEP] No. NRI can select only one authorised dealer for the purpose of investment under Portfolio Investment Scheme and route the transactions through the branch designated by the authorised dealer.
Who is a Non-Resident Indian [NRI]? [SEP] Non- Resident Indian [NRI] means a person resident outside India who is a citizen of India or is a person of Indian origin.
Who is a person of Indian origin? [SEP] 1. Person of Indian Origin (PIO) means a citizen of any country other than Bangladesh or Pakistan, if
1. he at any time held Indian passport; or
2. he or either of his parents or any of his grandparents was a citizen of India by virtue of the Constitution of India or the Citizenship Act, 1955; or
3. the person is a spouse of an Indian citizen or a person referred to in sub-clause [a] or [b].
Investment by PIO in Indian Securities is treated the same as the investment by non-resident Indians and requires same approvals and enjoys the same exemptions.
IEPF Online Sample Forms & Procedures [SEP] Please access the IEPF-5 webform for filing the claim for refund. Read the instructions provided on the website/instruction kit along with the web form carefully before filling the form.New user click hereExisting User click hereContinue to file your online IEPF-5 claim-form
View / Download Sample (SRN) Acknowledgment [SEP] Sample Acknowledgment of SRN
What is the format for indemnity bond to be made for IEPF-5? [SEP] The format for indemnity bond is available in the help kit of IEPF -5 form. For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What is IEPF? [SEP] Investor Education and Protection Fund or IEPF is a fund set up to pool in all the dividends of the Asset Management Companies, matured deposits, share application interests or money, debentures, interests, etc. that are unclaimed for seven years. All the money collected from these sources has to be transferred to IEPF.IEPF was initially set up under the Section 205C of the Companies Act, 1956. Now it is set up under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Additional Document in case Joint holder is deceased [SEP] Additional Document in case Joint holder is deceasedi.       In case any Joint holder is deceased, Notarized Copy of Death certificate. ?
Additional Documents in case of Address Mismatch [SEP] In case the claimant’s address as per Company’s record is not matching with any of the documents such as Adhaar Card, Passport, Copy of Bank Passbook, CML, etc., the following documents will be required:a) An affidavit (duly notarized) explaining the above deviation, on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as prescribed under Stamp Act according to State; and b) Proof of Old as well as New address, duly self-attested by the claimants. 
Additional Documents in case of Name Mismatch [SEP] In case the claimant’s name as per Company’s record is not matching with any of the documents such as PAN Card, Adhaar Card, Passport, cancelled cheque leaf, CML, etc., the following documents will be required:a) An affidavit (duly notarized) explaining the above deviation, on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as prescribed under Stamp Act according to State; and b) Marriage certificate, Gazette notification etc., if applicable
Additional Documents in case of Transmission of shares (IEPF) [SEP] In case the Claimant is the legal heir / representative of the Deceased Person, Transmission Form along with following documents:i. Where nomination is registered:Duly signed transmission request form by the nominee.Original or copy of death certificate(s) duly attested.Self-attested copy of PAN card.Original share certificate(s) (Physical Mode) / Copy of transaction statement duly certified by Depository Participant (DEMAT Mode).Any other Government ID proof of the nominee.ii. Where nomination is not registered [in addition to the documents specified at Para (i)Affidavit from all the legal heirs made on appropriate non-judicial stamp paper - to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities.Note: In case the legal heir(s) or claimant(s) is named in the succession certificate or probate of will or Letter of Administration, an Affidavit from such legal heir(s) or claimant(s) alone.For value of securities up to Rs. 2,00,000 (Rs. 2 lakh only) per issuer company as on date of application, one or more of the following documents:(a) Succession certificate or probate of will or letter of administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of Indian Succession Act, 1925.(b) In the absence of the documents as mentioned at (a) above,(i) No objection certificate from all legal heir(s) executed by all the legal heirs of the deceased holder not objecting to such transmission (or) copy of Family Settlement Deed duly notarized and (ii) An Indemnity bond made on appropriate non-judicial stamp paper — indemnifying the STA or Issuer Company.For value of securities more than Rs. 2,00,000 (Rs. 2 lakh only) per issuer company as on date of application:(a) Succession certificate or probate of will or will or letter of administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of Indian Succession Act, 1925.
Additional Documents in case Original share certificates lost/misplaced/not available for claim from IEPF [SEP] In case of loss of original share certificate:a) Notarized copy of FIR / Police Compliant containing information of security holder, holding details, folio number and distinctive numbers of shares.b) Surety Affidavit of value equal to market value of shares as on date of execution along with identity proof like PAN Card of sureties duly attested by Notary.c) Indemnity bond by security holder on a non-judicial stamp paper of requisite value duly attested by Notary, by the person in whose name the original share certificates are being issued that he has not sold / disposed-off the involved shares or acted in any manner by which any interest of third party would have been created.Note: Company will publish the requisite advertisement for loss of share certificate, in at least one English language national daily newspaper having nationwide circulation and in one regional language daily newspaper published in the place of registered office of company
Claim Securities & Amt from IEPF [SEP] Please select an option from Claim Securities & Amt form IEPF
What happens to dividend and bonus declared post transfer of  shares to IEPF? [SEP] All dividends and bonus shares if any declared and paid by company post transfer of shares to IEPF will also get transfer to IEPF and shareholder can claim the same for IEPF authorities.
When the dividend and shares are are transferred to IEPF Authority? [SEP] All dividends and shares, which remain unpaid or unclaimed for seven consecutive years due to any reason, are transferred by respective companies to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority. IEPF Authority is a statutory body, constituted under the provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
Can the IEPF- 5 e-form be filled without any assistance ? [SEP] Yes. The IEPF- 5 e-form can be duly filled without any assistance. The form contains a general guidance kit too. In case any further assistance is required, you can contact the IEPF helpdesk no.- 0124-4832500 or Public Relations Officers Phone no.- 011-23441777.
Can we submit multiple folio claims in a single company, in single IEPF-5 claim form? [SEP] Yes, we can. All folios against which refund of share need to be claimed are filled in the same form. Similarly, dividend and other amount may be mentioned for all the years.The Company shall ensure to recommend refund of all the shares and amount for which the claimant is entitled together at once.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Critical Information that needs to be filled correctly to ensure quick refund from the IEPF authority [SEP] It is advised that at the time of submission of information in IEPF 5 form, claimant should ensure correctness of information such as Aadhaar No., Demat No., Bank Account No., IFSC Code, etc.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Does the IEPF authority accept handwritten/physical IEPF-5 form? [SEP] No, handwritten/physical forms are summarily rejected.
Does the IEPF authority levy any fees for processing claim refunds? [SEP] No, there are no fees levied for application to the authority for claiming unpaid amounts and shares out of Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF).For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Do I need any assistance in filing a claim? [SEP] Filing a claim can be done without assistance. Investors need to fill IEPF-5 e-form. The  form contains a general guidance kit too. In case any further assistance is required, you can contact the IEPF helpdesk no.- 0124-4832500 or Public Relations Officers Phone no.- 011-23441777.
How do I file for a refund claim from the IEPF authority? [SEP] You need to mandatorily fill the IEPF-5 e-form to claim a refund from the IEPF authority. 
How many days it takes for Company to File e-Verification Report? [SEP] The Company has 30 Days from the Date of Filing of IEPF-5. Thereafter the company can reject such claims due to non-receipt of original documents from the claimant.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How the shares shall be returned to the claimant by IEPF authorties? [SEP] Once the claim is approved by IEPF authorities, shares shall be directly credited to the demat account provided by shareholder in their claim form. Having a active demat account is mandatory till the shares are getting credited into shareholder’s account.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How to find CIN? [SEP] To find CIN click here.Click on the ‘MCA Services’ tab on the home page. Click on the ‘Find CIN’ option from the drop-down list under the ‘Company Services’ option. Select the ‘Search Based on Existing Company / LLP Name’ option.Type the company name under the ‘Existing Company’ option, enter the captcha code and click on the ‘Search’ button.The company’s CIN will be displayed.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How will  the dividend amount be returned by IEPF Authorities? [SEP] Upon approval of claim, IEPF shall credit dividend amount into shareholder's bank account through electronic mode.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
In case of non-availability of Aadhaar Card, what other documents can be submitted as proof of identity? [SEP] In case of non-availability of Aadhaar Card for super senior citizens or some specific states, other ID Proofs issued by government clearly mentioning the address of the claimant needs to be submitted.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Is Mobile number and E-mail is mandatory for filing Web-Form IEPF-5? [SEP] The form requires OTP based verification for submission, for which claimant should have an active mobile number and a valid email-id.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Is original Share/Bond/Debenture certificate required to be submitted to IEPF Authority? [SEP] Yes, original certificate is required to be submitted.In case of loss of original, procedure for duplicate needs to be completed with the company including submission of FIR, Newspaper Advertisement in English and Vernacular Language, Indemnity cum Surety bond etc. as per SEBI Guidelines. A copy of such procedural documents shall be provided by the company to IEPF Authority along with its verification report.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the actions on the part of company to verify the claim? [SEP] The Nodal Officer of the Company shall be intimated through email notification as soon as the IEPF -5 e-form is filed by the claimant. On receipt of the original documents from claimant, the Company shall be required to authenticate the same with the scanned copy attached with the claim form. As per rule 7(3), the Company shall also be required to attach scanned copy of such authenticated documents with its e-verification report.Read more In cases covered under rule 7(8) and 7(9), the Company shall also be required to issue entitlement letter under rule 7(9) of IEPF Rules in favour of claimant and send a scanned copy of it with its e-verification report.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the benefits of the new online process to submit IEPF-5 forms? [SEP] The new process does not require any submission of physical documents to the IEPF authority. This is an online process with defined timelines that can be tracked at all stages.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the documentary requirements required by IEPF authorities,in case claimant is a legal heir? [SEP] In such a case, one needs to first follow the procedure prescribed for transmission of shares. On successful completion of the transmission request, the Company shall issue an ‘entitlement letter’ to the claimant. Thereafter, the claimant may raise a claim with IEPF authority by following the instructions provided on the website of IEPF.
What are  the Helpdesk contacts for  IEPF? [SEP] You may contact IEPF on the Toll free number 1800 114 667.Email id:  iepf@mca.gov.inFor any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500Address: Ground Floor, JeevanVihar Building, 3, Sansad Marg,  New Delhi - 110001
What are timelines for authority to process the IEPF-5 claim? [SEP] The authority shall process and intimate approval, rejection, resubmission or discrepancies in FIFO order within a period not exceeding 60 days from receipt of verification report.Claimant to claim amount / shares by submitting an online application in web - form IEPF-5.Claimant to submit the print out of web form IEPF-5 along with other documents to the Nodal Officer of the Company at its registered office for verification of the claim within 15-20 days form the date of SRN generation.Read moreCompany to send the e-verification report to IEPF within 30 days of receipt of the claim.IEPF to make transfer of shares and refund of amount through electronic mode.IEPF to examine completeness of documents and credit, transfer from company into IEPF Authority.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500Details of the Nodal officer can be accessed form the below mentioned link
What happens after submission of online IEPF-5 form.? [SEP] Once the e-form is uploaded (in case of normal filing or re-submission), an email notification gets triggered to the Nodal Officer of the Company to upload an e-verification report for the claimant.When an e-form is approved/rejected by the concernedauthority, an email acknowledgement is sent to the claimant.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What happens if the name on original certificates is not matching with the PAN or address on the Proof of Identity is not matching with company’ records? [SEP] In such case as per SEBI Guidelines, an affidavit explaining the above deviation needs to be submitted. In case of mismatch in name, proof of name as on share certificate or change of name viz. marriage certificate, gazette notification etc. needs to be submitted.In case of mismatch in address, new address needs to be updated with the company.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What happens in the event of a name or address mismatch with PAN/Company records? [SEP] In such a case, as per SEBI Guidelines, an affidavit explaining the above deviation needs to be submitted.In case of mismatch in name, proof of name as on share certificate or change of name viz. marriage certificate, gazette notification etc. needs to be submitted.In case of mismatch in address, new address needs to be updated with the Company.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What is re-submission? What is the time-period for re-submission of claim application? [SEP] For rectification of errors in e-form IEPF- 5, the IEPF authority provides one more chance to the claimant to correct the details and to re-submit the form. This is known as re-submission. It may be noted that only one re-submission is allowed. A 15 days’ time-period is allowed for making re-submission of claim application. In case re-submission is not done in the prescribed time, the form becomes invalid.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What is the Penalty for late filing of e-Verification Report? [SEP] The present rule has Rs. 50 per day. Maximum upto Rs 2500/- beyond the permissible limit and the late fees to be borne by the Company. Fees payable is subject to changes in pursuance of the Act or any rule or regulation made or notification issued thereunder.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What is the required value of the stamp paper for the indemnity bond for claim of securities from IEPF? [SEP] In case of refund of dividend amount of Rs. 10,000 or more and/or market value of shares, a non- judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as prescribed under Stamp Act according to State is required.For claim of only amount of Rs. 10,000 or less, indemnity bond can be executed on a plain paper.In case of claim of shares and dividend both, non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as prescribed under Stamp Act according to State. A general guidance kit is also attached with the form for any help, if required for filling up such Form.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
When are the shares OR unpaid/unclaimed dividend transferred to IEPF? [SEP] If the dividend declared by the company remains unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven years, the company is required to transfer the same to IEPF. Further, all shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid/claimed for seven consecutive years or more is required to be transferred by the company in the name of IEPFFor any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Whether any Government appointed or empanelled professional help is required  in making claims to the claimant.? [SEP] No. IEPF Authority has not appointed or empanelled any professional for claims. Filling of IEPF 5 Form is simple and friendly for claimants to execute.. For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Whether a professional help is required to fill e-Form IEPF– 5? [SEP] No. The procedure for filling the e-Form is simple. The prescribed Form is not only very precise but also very friendly in filling up. A general guidance kit is also attached with the form for any help, if required for filling up such Form. For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Whether e-Form is to be filled online to claim refunds from IEPF Authority? [SEP] Yes. Any Forms filled in physical mode are summarily rejected by IEPF Authority.
Who can claim the Shares / Debentures / Unclaimed Amounts transferred to IEPF Authority? [SEP] Any person whose shares / unclaimed dividend or other amount such as matured deposits, matured debentures, application money due for refund, or interest thereon, sale proceeds of fractional shares, redemption proceeds of preference shares etc. have been transferred by the company to IEPF may claim the shares and/or apply for refund of amounts transferred, from the IEPF Authority, by submitting an online application in Web-Form IEPF-5 available on IEPF website.Read moreApplication can also be made by any successor, legal heir / representative of the deceased person.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Why is Client Master List(CML) and cancelled Original Cheque leaf required? [SEP] Client master List (CML) and cancelled Original Cheque leaf are required to verify the DEMAT and Bank Account in which transfer is to be made. In case, Cheque leaf doesn’t have Name, Bank and Branch Name, IFSC Code etc. printed on it, copy of passbook, duly attested by the Bank can be submitted.Read moreClient Master List is mandatory and it shall be mandatory certified by the DP. Please ensure all the details of the shareholders like name, PAN etc For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
-2023 Pre-requisite / Practical aspects and Procedure to claim securities and amounts from IEPF Authority:- [SEP] Step 1: Identification of shares held in the IEPF Suspense Account:The first step in claiming back shares from the IEPF Suspense Account is to identify the shares held. This can be done by visiting the IEPF website (www.iepf.gov.in) and clicking the “List of Shares/Securities transferred to IEPF Authority” link. This will take time to search for the shares by entering the company name or the folio number. OR Investor/ Claimant will seek exact details of Amounts and Securities from the Registrar/ Company.Registrar/ Company will provide details and procedure as mentioned above in reply to the letter. Investors / Claimants shall register themselves on the IEPF website: www.iepf.gov.in Step 2: Filing of the claim form:Once you have identified the shares held in the IEPF Suspense Account, the next step is to file a claim form with the IEPF Authority. The investor needs to fill out the new web form IEPF-5 ONLINE, attach the scanned copy of the required documents along with the entitlement letter and follow the procedure, for online filing on IEPF-PortalTake a printout of the indemnity bond. Send the said documents to the company/RTA claim form .Upon receipt of a copy of the filed form and required documents (in original) from the investor, RTA/ Company will prepare a verification report as per the latest format Step 3: Submission of documents:Along with the claim form, the claimant must submit certain documents to the IEPF Authority. These documents include proof of identity, proof of address, proof of ownership of shares, and any other documents that the IEPF Authority may require. The claimant must ensure that a notary public or a gazetted officer attests to all the documents. Step 4: Verification of documents:Once the claim form and documents are submitted to the IEPF Authority, the authority will verify them. The verification process takes longer than usual, and the claimant may be required to provide additional documents if the IEPF Authority deems it necessary. Step 5: Approval of claim:The Nodal Officer of the Company shall submit the e-verification report duly signed, to the IEPF authority through post within 30 days of receipt of the claimIEPF Authority will verify the details and e-verification report and initiate the refund to be released by the IEPF Authority in favor of the claimants’ Aadhaar linked Bank account through electronic transfer and securities in the Demat Account of the claimant.if the claim form and documents are in order, the IEPF Authority will approve the claim, and the shares will be transferred to the claimant’s Demat account. The claimant will be informed about the approval of the claim through email or SMS.Step 6: Rejection of claim:If the claim form and documents are complete or corrected, the IEPF Authority may accept the claim. In such cases, the claimant will be informed about the rejection, and the reasons will be communicated to the claimant. IEPF will verify the details and e-verification report and initiate the refund to be released by the IEPF Authority in favor of the claimants’ Aadhaar linked Bank account through electronic transfer and securities in the Demat Account of the claimant.Conclusion** Claimants are advised to file e-form IEPF-5 only once all documents are available. Delay in submission of documents may make the e-form liable for rejection.Claiming back shares from the Investor Education and Protection Fund Suspense Account can be a long process that requires patience and attention to detail. The claimant must ensure that all the required documents are submitted along with the claim form and that a notary public or a gazetted officer attests to the documents. The claimant must also be prepared to provide additional documents if the IEPF authority requires them. The claimant can reclaim their shares from the IEPF Suspense Account with proper documentation and diligence. The authority also conducts educational and awareness programs for investors, promotes good corporate governance, and takes measures to prevent fraud and malpractice in the securities market.Overall, the Investor Education and Protection Fund Suspense Account and the IEPF Authority are essential components of India’s regulatory framework for the securities market. They protect investors’ interests and ensure a stable and efficient securities market. For any further help, the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Guidelines for filling IEPF-5 e-form (Point no. 3 & 4) [SEP] The claimant may fill the information as per the records available with him/as provided by Company/RTA. To know the details of Shares /Debentures, Fixed deposit, Unclaimed amount, or to get your entitlement letter to be filed with IEPF Authority, kindly contact the RTA/Company. However,it is necessary that for one Company, all folios against which refund of share needs to be claimed are filled in the same form. Dividend and other amount may be mentioned for all the years.The Company shall ensure to recommend refund of all the shares and amount for which the claimant is entitled together at once.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How to file Web based Form IEPF-5? [SEP] Kindly View / Download / Print the attached easy reference guide.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Is PAN mandatory for filing Web-Form IEPF 5? [SEP] Yes, PAN is mandatory. The Web-Form IEPF-5 requires PAN verification without which submission of the same is not possible.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the documentary requirement by IEPF authorities, in case claimant is a legal heir? [SEP] (i) In case of legal heir - the claimant is required to register transmission with the company by providing requisite documents as per SEBI Guidelines. According to SEBI Guidelines for registering transmission, company may require copy of death certificate, Affidavit from legal heirs, Indemnity Bond, Succession Certificate or probate of will or letter of administration etc. for share with market value greater than 5 lacs, NOC from other legal heirs and relinquishment deed in favour of claimant etc;Read more(ii) In case of death of any of the holder in joint holding of securities, but not covered in the family hierarchy – the claimant is required to get the name of the deceased holder of security deleted from the register of the members/other records, if any, in the company immediately after the death of a joint security holder before filing claim application. The claimant is also required to obtain NoC from other holders of securities, if any, and submit the same alongwith claim application.Read more SEBI Guidelines may also be seen before filing claim application. Company is required to issue entitlement letter under rule 7(9) of IEPF Rules 2016 in favour of claimant and send it along with copy of documents submitted by claimant with its verification report.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the documents required to be submitted with IEPF -5? [SEP] 1. Printout of duly filled claim form with claimant signature and in case of joint holders, the form should be signed by all the joint holders along with annexures submitted with the form.2. Copy of acknowledgment generated on online submission of IEPF – 5 e-form, bearing a unique serial number (SRN),3. Indemnity Bond (original) with claimant signature( auto-generated ) after uploading Form IEPF-5.4. Proof of entitlement, (Original share certificate /Interest warrant /Application No. etc.),. Original matured deposit /Original Debenture certificate [ in case of securities held in physical form] or copy of transaction statement in case of securities held in Demat Form.]Read more5. Self-attested Copy of Aadhaar Card and Client Master List.6. Proof of entitlement (original share certificate /Interest warrant Application No. etc.)7. Cancelled Original Cheque leaf,8. Self-attested Copy of Passport, OCI and PIO card in case of Other Nationalities and NRI duly apostilized.9. In the event of death of any joint holder, Copy of Death certificate to be attached.Read more10. In cases of transmission, loss of original shares, mismatch in name and address etc., relevant documents as mentioned in Schedule II, III and IV respectively.11. Any other document relevant to prove entitlement of the claimant.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the Documents to be submitted to the Authority in case of loss of securities held in physical mode.? [SEP] Kindly View / Download / Print the guide for documents to be submitted in case of loss of securities in physical mode.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the documents to be submitted to the IEPF Authority to register transmission of securities [SEP] Kindly View / Download / Print the guide for documents to be submitted to register transmission of securitiuesFor any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the KYC documents required for filing IEPF -5 claim? [SEP] 1.    For Indian Citizens- to prove the identity of the claimant self-certified copy of Pan Card and Aadhaar Card are required to be submitted.2.    For Non-Resident Indians - to prove the identity of the claimant, self-attested copy of Passport or self-attested copy of Overseas Indian Card (OIC) issued by MHA along with any of the documents available with him.3.    For Other Nationalities - instead of Aadhaar Card, copy of Passport or PIO Card duly apostilized as per Hague Convention.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What are the list of documents required for submission of IEPF-5 e-form? [SEP] 1. Aadhaar Card of the claimant and in case of joint holders copy of Aadhaar card of all joint holders- Mandatory2. Passport, OCI and PIO card in case of Other Nationalities and NRI - Mandatory.3. Client Master List of De-mat A/c of the claimant - Mandatory.4. Proof of entitlement (Bonds/Debentures/Fixed Deposit receipts/Certificate of share/Interest warrant/Dividend warrant, Application No./Statement of transaction etc.) - Mandatory.Read more5. Optional Attachments –if “Yes” is selected in field 3 of IEPF- 5 e-form, notarized copy of death certificate, notarized succession certificate/Probate/Will, No-Objection Certificate from other holder, Indemnity Bond for Transmission, duly notarized, Affidavit in form of surety are to be submittedFor any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What is CIN? [SEP] CIN stand for Corporate Identification Number. Corporate Identification Number (CIN) is a 21 digits alpha-numeric code issued to companies incorporated within the country on being registered by the ROC situated in different states across India under the MCA.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
What is the value to be filled in the number of shares and amount in the indemnity bond for claim of securities from IEPF? [SEP] The number of shares and amount should be same as that filled in form IEPF -5. These values can be ascertained based on the available documents with the claimant or verified from the company. However mismatch in number of shares or in amount is not a ground for rejection of the claim. The authority shall process the claim based on the verification report received from the company and the same shall be verified from the data available with the authority.Read more A general guidance kit is also attached with the form for any help, if required for filling up such Form. For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Where are the documents required to be sent by the claimant after the prescribed claim form is filled up? [SEP] The documents are required to be sent to the Nodal Officer of the Company.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
Where should we send the IEPF-5 claim form and the required documents? [SEP] The documents are required to be sent to the Nodal Officer of the Company.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How can I track status of an SRN for a Company related transaction? [SEP] To know the current status of your IEPF-5 claim, submit your SRN Number on the below link.Click here to track your IEPF-5 SRN status ORTo track status of an e-form filed/. SRN/ transaction, follow the steps given below:1. Login to the MCA21 application.2. Click the MCA Services tab. The list of MCA services is displayed.3. Click the Track SRN/ Transaction Status menu. The Track SRN/ Transaction Status page is displayed.4. Click the Track SRN/ Transaction Status for Company Related Transaction link.    The Track SRN/ Transaction Status page is displayed.5. Under the Services tab, click the Track Transaction Status menu.6. In the SRN field, enter the SRN to be tracked.Read more7. In the Start Date and End Date field, specify the time range when the transaction was completed.8. In the Service Type drop-down list, select the relevant option.9. Click the Search button. The SRN status is displayed.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How to Raise Ticket on MCA portal for IEPF-5 Claims? [SEP] You can raise a ticket with https://www.mca.gov.in/mcafoportal/userComplaintDetails.doFor any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How to Register on mca portal to claim refund of securities /Amount? [SEP] Select your question
How to Track SRN status for  IEPF-5 Claim? [SEP] To know the current status of your IEPF-5 claim, submit your SRN Number on the below link.Click here to track your IEPF-5 SRN status https://www.iepfportal.in/home/track-your-srnFor any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How to Register or Raise Claims on MCA portal for IEPF5 Claims? [SEP] Any claimant who is already registered and possesses a username to file IEPF -5 form may continue to use the same credentials.In case the claimant has forgotten the password, the same be retrieved using Forgot Password option.Any new claimant who is not registered earlier for filing the IEPF-5 webform may register using the below steps:a. For New User Registration on the MCA website  click hereb. For Registered User click here.c. Register after selecting “Registered User” or “business user” based on the User Category. Read mored. Once registered on the new portal, a claimant will be sent his username for filing the IEPF-5 web form on the company portal by email and SMS.e. The claimant must use the username sent to his email and SMS to log in and file IEPF5.f. In case of any difficulties, a claimant may log a ticket on the MCA portal or reach out to Helpdesk at 0120-4832500 or appl.helpdesk@mca.gov.inNote: New username for filing IEPF-5 webform shall only be sent to unique users i.e. users who have never registered for filing IEPF-5 webform earlier using the same credentials viz. Email, Mobile No, PAN No, etc.For any further help, the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
-2023 Procedure to claim shares or dividend/interest/amounts form the IEPF Authority.? [SEP] As per the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed therein the company shall transfer any dividend lying unpaid/ unclaimed in the Unpaid Dividend Account for a period of 7 years or more to the Investor Education and Protection Fund Account. Further, the Company shall also transfer its underlying shares if there has been no claim from the shareholder for the dividend of that base year including any other dividends declared by the company during that period of 7 years.In this context you have not claimed any dividend declared by the Company in the last 7 years, hence the Company has transferred your base year dividend along with the underlying shares to IEPF. Since as your shares are transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund Account (IEPF), the share certificates lodged by you are invalid and hence the same cannot be dematerialized.As per the provisions of Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed therein a shareholder can claim back his unclaimed or unpaid dividends and shares from IEPF by following the procedure as prescribed by the IEPF Authorities, shareholders can refer to the same on the IEPF website i.e. www.iepf.gov.in.__Read__more__Procedure to Claim Refund:1. Please access the IEPF-5 webform for filing the claim for a refund. Read the instructions provided on the website/instruction kit along with the web form carefully before filling out the form.2. After filling out the form, submit the duly filled form. On successful submission, an acknowledgment will be generated indicating the SRN. Please note the SRN for future tracking of the form.3. Take a printout of the duly filled IEPF-5 and the acknowledgment issued after uploading the form.Read more4. Submit the indemnity bond in an original, copy of acknowledgment and IEPF-5 form along with the other documents as mentioned in the Form IEPF-5 to the Nodal Officer (IEPF) of the company at its registered office in an envelope marked "Claim for a refund from IEPF Authority".5. Claim forms completed in all aspects will be verified by the concerned company and on the basis of the company's verification report, refund will be released by the IEPF Authority in favor of the claimants' account through electronic transfer. For any further help, the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
How to contact ? [SEP] It would be endeavored to answer all queries through telephone number and email ID. However, it is requested to provide a detailed query and contact number of the shareholder via Email-R-T email and we shall contact you by phone subsequently. Focus Address
How will system recognize claimants of age 75 years & above? [SEP] The system shall calculate the age from Date of Birth from the data filled in IEPF-5 web-form which shall be authenticated from PAN Database. 
Is there some dedicated phone and email number for facilitation for this service? [SEP] Yes, for the facilitation of these claimants, a dedicated telephone number 011- 23441727 and email id seniorcitizen.iepfa@mca.gov.in has been established.
Request to file Entitlment Letter along with IEPF-5 Claim Form [SEP] Investors/Claimants are requested to upload the Entitlement Letter received from RTA/Nodal Officer of the Client Company.Any claim not supported by Entitlement Letter shall be rejected by IEPF as per IEPF notification dated  20-07-2022
Special Window Facility for Senior-Citizens of age 75 Years & above [SEP] Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority as a part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav (AKAM) has launched a special window facility for senior citizens of age 75 years & above. 1.As a part of this facility, the claim filed by these claimants shall be auto-prioritized in MCA 21 system after receipt of the e-verification report from the companies. 2. For the facilitation of these claimants, a dedicated telephone number 011-23441727 and email id seniorcitizen.iepfa@mca.gov.in has been established. 3. Companies are requested to facilitate all such claimants in filing IEPF - 5 as well as file their e-verification report on priority in MCA 21.Companies are also requested to provide dedicated facilitation to all such claimants and the same may be given wide publicity. 
What are the actions on the part of claimant that helps the Authority to refund the claims in minimum time? [SEP] It is advised that at the time of submission of information in IEPF 5 form, the claimant should ensure the correctness of information such as Aadhaar No., Demat No., Bank Account No., IFSC Code, etc.
What facilitation shall be provided through the dedicated email id and telephone number? [SEP] It would be endeavored to answer all queries through telephone number and email id. However, it is requested to provide a detailed query and contact number of claimant in the email and the claimant shall be contacted through phone subsequently. 
What is Special Window Facility for Senior-Citizens of age 75 Years & above? [SEP] As a part of this facility, the claim filed by these claimant shall be autoprioritized in MCA 21 system after receipt of e-verification report from the companies.
Which email id and phone number should be provided in the email? [SEP] Email Id and Phone number of claimant as filled in web-form IEPF-5 must be provided and the Authority shall not be able to provide any information to any third party. 
Will the authority be providing any facilitation in getting verification of claims from the company? [SEP] The Authority through a circular has requested the companies and their nodal officers to facilitate all such claimants in filing IEPF - 5 as well as file their everification report on priority in MCA 21. Companies have also been requested to provide dedicated facilitation to all such claimants.
What is SRN  ? [SEP] Service Request Number (SRN) is generated on successful submission of IEPF-5 e-form. Please note the SRN for future tracking of the form.For any further help the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500.
How can I complete my KYC process? [SEP] To complete the KYC process online click hereOR Visit our office during business hours on any working day for an In-Person Verification (IPV) with our officer.Please visit us with your original documents and self-attested copies at any of our office locations OR send self-attested copies through courier/post to our Head Office at: -Focus AddressList of documents:1.    Identity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card / PAN Card/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Passport.2.   Address Proof (any one):- Passport/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Aadhaar Card/ Utility Bill (not more than 3 months old)/ Bank statement not more than 3 months old/Updated bank passbook with bank seal on the first page3.    Signature Proof (any one):- Completed Form ISR-2/PAN Card/Passport.Status Intimation shall be shared via Email & SMS within 7-10 working days after receipt of documents
How can I convert my Folio to a full KYC compliant? [SEP] We would like to draw your attention to Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated March 16, 2023, issued by SEBI, on Common and Simplified Norms for processing Investor’s Service Request by RTAs.:SEBI vide this Circular has mandated the furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address, Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC and Nomination documents/details are received”.The relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website at https://www.linkintime.co.in -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein.Completing to a KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the above set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus Address
-2023 KYC Registration of PAN / Mobile / Email(optional) [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC-compliant folio, please submit the followingKindly fill and submit Form ISR-1, duly signed by the holder(s) as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company/RTA along with supporting documents as mentioned in Form ISR-1, along with a self-certified copy of PAN.Focus Address
My Folio account is not activated although KYC is done what to do? [SEP] If your KYC request is rejected/ Folio is still In-Active due to objection raised in processing your KYC request you may visit in-person to our office with self-attested copies with date, of all KYC documents during Business Hours on any working days for spot verification of documents, so as to resolve your issue.
Why do I need to complete Re-KYC for my Folio? [SEP] As per SEBI guidelines, RTA/Company may ask for Re-KYC only in case your folio/s are not completely KYC compliant, which means out of 6 criteria of KYC ( like PAN, email id, Phone no., signature, Bank details, Nomination), even if any one of these are not updated in our records, you need to re-submit the missing documents;To complete the Re-KYC process online click hereOR Visit our office during business hours on any working day for an In-Person Verification (IPV) with our officer.Please visit us with your original documents and self-attested copies at any of our office locations OR send self-attested copies through courier/post to our Head Office at: -Focus AddressList of documents:1.    Identity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card / PAN Card/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Passport.2.   Address Proof (any one):- Passport/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Aadhaar Card/ Utility Bill (not more than months old)/ Bank statement not more than 3 months old/Updated bank passbook with bank seal on the first page3.    Signature Proof (any one):- Completed Form ISR-2/PAN Card/Passport.Status Intimation shall be shared via Email & SMS within 7-10 working days after receipt of documents.
Why is my folio is inactive although I have submitted my KYC documents? [SEP] To activate your folio as KYC compliant, we need to ensure that the documents submitted by you are in compliance with the KYC guidelines. In case they are not, we may have to reject them.There could be multiple reasons as to why there is a rejection of your KYC documents. Our KYC team will promptly communicate the reason for rejection to you via email. Based on this reason for rejection, you will then be required to re-submit the necessary documents.This may be due to a rejection/ objection raised during processing of your KYC documents.In such a case, you may visit our office with all the attested documents for an In-Person Verification (IPV). Focus Address
Is it mandatory to update KYC details? [SEP] Yes, as per SEBI regulation, it is mandatory to update KYC details
What are the ways of completing the KYC compliance process? [SEP] Complete your KYC process in either of the 3 ways -1.    In-Person Verification (IPV): by producing the originals to the authorized person of the RTA, who will retain copy(s) of the document(s) or2.    By furnishing self-attested photocopy(s) of relevant document(s) or3.    With eSign:          a)    In case your email is already registered with us you may send the scanned copies of your KYC documents with eSign to our email-id: kyc@linkintime.co.in.Please use "KYC Updation - (Company Name) - Folio No. :________________ “as your email subject line orb) You can upload KYC documents with eSign on our website https://web.linkintime.co.in/KYC/index.html/ 
How to check status of PAN Linked to Aadhaar ? [SEP] To know the status of your Pan Linked to Aadhaar check on this link: https://www.incometax.gov.in/iec/foportal
How to update my KYC ? [SEP] Please visit us with your original documents and self-attested copies at any of our office locations; OR send self-attested copies through courier/post to our Head Office at: -Focus AddressList of documents:1.    Identity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card / PAN Card/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Passport.2.   Address Proof (any one):- Passport/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Aadhaar Card/ Utility Bill (not more than 3 months old)/ Bank statement not more than 3 months old/Updated bank passbook with bank seal on the first page3.    Signature Proof (any one):- Completed Form ISR-2/PAN Card/Passport.
Is it mandatory to link my PAN details with Aadhaar? [SEP] Yes, it is mandatory to link your PAN details with Aadhaar as per the CBDT notification. PAN shall be valid only if it is linked to Aadhaar by June 30,, 2023.Click here to know whether your PAN is linked to Aadhaar
Is it necessary to keep my folio KYC compliant? [SEP] It is necessary to keep your folio KYC compliant at all times. Folios wherein any ONE of the cited details/documents, (i.e., PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address, Mobile Number, Bank Account details, Specimen Signature and Nomination) are not available on or after October 01, 2023, shall be frozen as per SEBI circular
What happens if I don't do my KYC? [SEP] Non-updation of KYC details- Folios wherein any One of the cited details/documents, (i.e. PAN, Address with PIN code, Mobile Number, Bank Account details, Specimen Signature, and Nomination) will not be entitled to any sort of service request, unless the said folio is KYC compliant. Sebi vide its circular dated November 17, 2023 bearing SEBI reference number SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/181 has decided to mitigate unintended challenges on account of freezing of folios and referring frozen folios to the administering authority under the Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 and/or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, and has been decided to do away with the provisions of freezing of folios.
What is eSign ? [SEP] eSign is an integrated service which facilitates issuing a Digital Signature Certificate and performing signing of requested data by eSign user.You may approach any of the empanelled eSign service providers available on https://cca.gov.in/for the purpose of obtaining eSign.
What is KYC? [SEP] We all know that 'KYC' is Know Your Client/Know Your Customer and is a verification process that allows an institution to confirm and verify the authenticity of the client/customer.SEBI through its Circular dated March 16, 2023 has mandated that capital market intermediaries such as RTA's need to facilitate, on or before 30th September 2023, the establishment of the identities of their clients' investors who are in possession of shares in physical form in order to make them KYC-compliant, failing which, service requests of non-KYC compliant investors would be put on hold. SEBI through its Circular dated September 26, 2023, has extended the last date for submission of these KYC details to December 31, 2023Read moreNon-updation of KYC details- Folios wherein any One of the cited details/documents, (i.e. PAN, Address with PIN code, Mobile Number, Bank Account details, Specimen Signature, and Nomination) will not be entitled to any sort of service request, unless the said folio is KYC compliant. Sebi vide its circular dated November 17, 2023 bearing SEBI reference number SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/181 has decided to mitigate unintended challenges on account of freezing of folios and referring frozen folios to the administering authority under the Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 and/or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, and has been decided to do away with the provisions of freezing of folios.There are 3 Ways of doing KYC with us: Read moreIn-Person Verification (IPV): by producing the originals to the authorised person of the RTA, who will retain copy(ies) of the document(s). In hard copy: by furnishing self-attested photocopy(ies) of the relevant documentWith eSign:                 In case your email is already registered with us, you may send the scanned copies of your KYC documents with  eSign at our dedicated email-id: kyc@linkintime.co.in Kindly mention the email subject line as "KYC Updation - (Company Name) - Folio No :________________" .  Also, note that we accept only esigned copies and we do not accept digitally signed copies. Investors can also upload KYC documents with eSign on our website https://web.linkintime.co.in/KYC/index.html/ Read moreeSign is an integrated service which facilitates issuing a Digital Signature Certificate and performing signing of requested data by eSign user.You may approach any of the empanelled eSign service providers available on https://cca.gov.in/for the purpose of obtaining eSign.
What is pan linked to Aadhaar? [SEP] PAN shall be valid only if it is linked to Aadhaar by June 30, 2023. As per the CBDT notification a late fee of Rs 1000 will be levied in cases where the Aadhaar is linked to the PAN upto the financial year.For Exemptions / Clarifications on PAN, please refer to Objection Memo as specified in SEBI circular. Click here to know whether your pan is linked Aadhaar
What is the email id to communicate with the RTA? [SEP] You are advised to mention the Folio No., Company Name and your Contact No. in all your communication sent to the RTA/Company.Email-R-TEmail-Public-IssuesEmail-Bonds
What will happen if PAN is not linked with Aadhaar by June 30? [SEP] In case a person fails to link his or her PAN with Aadhaar, the PAN will become inoperative. In such a case, the person will not be able to furnish, intimate or quote his PAN and shall be liable to all the consequences under the Income-tax Act for such failure. Some of the major implications of non-compliance are:*The person shall not be able to file the income tax return using the inoperative PAN.*Pending returns will not be processed.*Pending refunds cannot be issued to inoperative PANs.*Pending proceedings as in the case of defective returns cannot be completed once the PAN is inoperative.*Tax will be required to be deducted at a higher rate as PAN becomes inoperative.Besides these consequences, the person may find difficulties in doing other financial transactions such as with banks, as PAN is an important KYC criterion for these transactions.
Who is not required to link PAN with Aadhaar? [SEP] There are a few categories of individuals for whom this linkage is not compulsory.*Any person of age eighty years and above.*Non-resident as per the Income-tax Act.A person who is not a citizen of India.
Who needs to Link PAN with Aadhaar? [SEP] As per the circular issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in March 2022, the Income-tax Act has mandated to link PAN with Aadhar  and it has  to be done on or before June 30, 2023, failing which the PAN shall become inoperative.
Why has Sebi made it mandatory for investors to link PAN with Aadhaar? [SEP] Since PAN is the key identification number and part of KYC requirements for all transactions in the securities market, all SEBI-registered entities and Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs) are required to ensure valid KYC for all participants.All existing investors are required to ensure the linking of their PAN with their Aadhaar number within the timeline for continual and smooth transactions in the securities market and to avoid consequences of non-compliance with the March 30, 2022, CBDT circular, as such accounts would be considered non-KYC compliant, and there could be restrictions on securities and other transactions until the PAN and Aadhaar are linked.
When can I expect an intimation for completion of my KYC ? [SEP] Status Intimation shall be shared via Email & SMS within 7-10 working days after receipt of documents.Incase, of non-receipt of intimation, you may feel free to reach out to us at OR write to us at: -Focus Address
What is the time line to Update KYC? [SEP] In case of In-Person Verification(IPV), it takes about 2 working days. If KYC has been done through physical documentation it takes 7-10 working days.
Which are the acceptable documents for KYC? [SEP] For KYC the acceptable documents are as follows:Identity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card, PAN Card, Driving License, Voter ID, Passport.Address Proof (any one): Passport, Driving License, Voter ID, Aadhaar Card, Utility Bill (not more than 3 months old), Bank Statement, Bank Account updated Passbook.Signature Proof (any one): Completed Form ISR-2,PAN Card, Passport.
Can I complete KYC without Aadhaar? [SEP] Aadhaar is not mandatory for KYC. You can provide Passport, Voter ID card or Driving License also.
KYC completion - documents to submit [SEP] We have a seamless KYC and re-KYC process for your convenience.For KYC and Re-KYC, the accepted documents are as follows:Identity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card, PAN Card, Driving License, Voter ID, Passport.Address Proof (any one): Passport, Driving License, Voter ID, Aadhaar Card, Utility Bill (not more than 3 months old), Bank Statement, Bank Account updated Passbook.Signature Proof (any one): Completed Form ISR-2,PAN Card, Passport.Read morePlease carry the originals and self-attested copies.Please Note: As per SEBI norms Re-KYC/KYC needs to be done for all Investors in capital market.
What are KYC forms? [SEP] KYC is Know Your Customer documents that are to be submitted to make your Folio KYC Compliant. Based on the SEBI guidelines, the RTA/Company may ask for KYC/Re-KYC, in case your Folios is/are not fully KYC Compliant, to keep our records updated.You need to submit/ complete your KYC/Re-KYC at our office location, click here, with relevant documents. Below is the list of documents accepted:Read moreIdentity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card, PAN Card, Driving License, Voter ID, Passport.Address Proof (any one): Passport, Driving License, Voter ID, Aadhaar Card, Utility Bill (not more than 3 months old), Bank Statement, Bank Account updated Passbook.Signature Proof (any one): Completed Form ISR-2,PAN Card, Passport.
What are the Documents Required for KYC? [SEP] List of acceptable documents:1.    Identity Proof (any one): - Aadhaar Card / PAN Card/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Passport.2.    Address Proof (any one):- Passport/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Aadhaar Card/ Utility Bill (not more than 3 months old)/ Bank statement not more than 3 months old/ Updated bank passbook with bank seal on the first page3.    Signature Proof (any one):- Completed Form ISR-2/PAN Card/Passport. Status Intimation shall be shared via Email & SMS within 7-10 working days after receipt of documents.
Who are the service providers of the eSign facility? [SEP] Few of the service providers for eSign:Service Provider: Mudhra LimitedWeb site: www.e-mudhra.comE-Mail: eservices@emudhra.comService Provider: NSDL e-Governance Infrastructure LtdWeb site : https://www.egov-nsdl.co.in/E-Mail: esign@nsdl.co.inService Provider: CDSL Ventures LtdWeb site: https://www.cvlindia.comE-mail: esign@cdslindia.com
Service Request Form [SEP] Choose any service request forms
Form ISR 1 Register PAN/Update KYC [SEP] ISR-1 form is meant to help you to register/update the following1.      Register -PAN Details2.     Change / Register -Bank Details3.     Change / Register -Signature as verified by Banks4.     Change in Address5.     Change / Register -Mobile Number6.     Change / Register Email-id.Choose any one option
View/Download ISR 1 [SEP] ISR-1 form is meant to help you to register/update the following1.      Register -PAN Details2.     Change / Register -Bank Details3.     Change / Register -Signature as verified by Banks4.     Change in Address5.     Change / Register -Mobile Number6.     Change / Register Email-id.Please select the type of form required
What is Form ISR-1? Can i update my bank details? [SEP] ISR-1 form is meant to help you to register/update the following:1.   Register -PAN Details2.  Change / Register -Bank Details3.  Change/Register -Signature as verified by Banks4.  Change in Address5.  Change / Register -Mobile Number6.  Change / Register Email-id.
Form ISR 2 Change / Updation of Bank Details [SEP] Signature plays a very important role in the process of KYC. As part of KYC, registering your signature with the RTA/Company is compulsory. In the event your signature has changed/ not registered, kindly fill up Form ISR-2.This form is meant to confirm your signature(s) by the Banker.Form ISR-2 can be used to register bank details with us froma)  the latest copy of the bank statement with details of bank name, branch, account number and IFSC orb)  Original cancelled cheque leaf bearing the name of first holder, duly stamped, signed and sealed by your banker.
What is Form ISR-2 ?. Can I change my signature using this form? [SEP] Signature plays a very important role in the process of KYC. As part of KYC, registering your signature with the RTA/Company is compulsory. In the event your signature has changed/ not registered, kindly fill up Form ISR-2.This form is meant to confirm your signature(s) by the Banker.Form ISR-2 can be used to register bank details with us froma)     the latest copy of the bank statement with details of bank name, branch, account number and IFSC orb)     Original cancelled cheque leaf bearing the name of first holder, duly stamped, signed and sealed by your banker        Yes, using form ISR 2, shareholder/s can change / register fresh signature(s).    
Form ISR 3 Opt-Out of Nomination [SEP] ISR-3 form is meant to help you to:a)   Opt-out of existing nomination orb)   Opt for No Nomination by Holders of Physical Securities in Listed Companies.Without nomination your Folio will be treated as Non-KYC Complaint. Use of ISR-3 will be applied for the entire securities against the said folio.
What is Form ISR-3? [SEP] ISR-3 form is meant to help you to:a)   Opt-out of existing nomination orb)   Opt for No Nomination by Holders of Physical Securities in Listed Companies.Without nomination your Folio will be treated as Non-KYC Compliant. Use of ISR-3 will be applied for the entire securities against the said folio.
What is Form ISR-4? [SEP] ISR-4 form is meant to help investors in soliciting the following requests from the RTA/ Company1.    Issue of Duplicate Certificate(s).2.    Claim for Unclaimed Suspense Account.3.    Replacement/Renewal /Exchange of Securities Certificate.4.    Endorsement.5.    Sub-Division/ Splitting of securities certificate.6.    Consolidation of Folios.7.    Consolidation of Securities Certificate.8.    Transposition. Read moreAfter processing the service request, the RTA shall issue a ˜Letter of Confirmation” to the securities holder/claimant, which is valid only for 120 days. Using this ˜Letter of Confirmation”, the securities holder/claimant shall request the DP to dematerialize the securities, failing which the securities shall be credited to the Suspense Escrow Demat Account of the Company.An important aspect of Form ISR-4 is that investors will be able to claim all their benefits only in electronic form.
What type of Service request will be issued in dematerialised form only? [SEP] SEBI vide its Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 datedJanuary 25, 2022 ("the Circular") has stated that listed Companies shall henceforth issue thesecurities in dematerialized form only while processing the following service requests :Issue of Duplicate Certificate(s).Claim for Unclaimed Suspense Account.Replacement/Renewal /Exchange of Securities Certificate.Endorsement.Sub-Division/ Splitting of securities certificate.Consolidation of Folios.Consolidation of Securities Certificate.Transposition.Transmission.
-2023 Registration of Nomination [SEP] Short Definition: Nomination enables the issuer company to identify the legal representative of the deceased shareholder and thereby facilitates the smooth transmission of his / her securities. The investor has to submit nomination Form SH-13 to the RTA in hard copy or electronic mode with e-signature for making a nomination in the folio, separately for each company.The Investor has the option to nominate more than one person as his / her nominee by submitting Form SH-13 to the RTA clearly mentioning the names of the nominees and the entitlement percentage against each nominee through hard copy or electronic mode with e-signature for making a nomination in the folio, separately for each Company. Joint holders together can nominate any person to whom all the rights in the securities shall vest in the event of the death of all the joint holders.__Read__more__ A nomination once made can be modified by submitting a fresh nomination form. The investor will have to fill out Form SH -14 and submit it to the RTA for effecting the changes.Focus Address A nomination once made can be canceled by submitting a Form SH -14 along with Form ISR-3 declaration for opt-out to the RTA for effecting the changes. To opt-out Investor will have to submit Form ISR 3 to the RTA to opt out of nomination in the folio. Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC compliant folio, please submit the following: The security holder(s) can register/update the nomination through a request letter duly signed as per the specimen signature(s) registered with the company/RTA, containing basic essentials of the shareholder(s) such as Company Name, Folio Num, Name(s) of the Shareholder's and shall complete the following processes in Form ISR-1, duly signed by the first/all the holder(s) as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company along with supporting documents as indicated herein: Self-attested copy of any 1 of the following documents issued by a Government authority:   a. Client Master List (CML) of your demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, which has to be attested by your DP.b. Valid Passport / Registered Lease (notarised) or Sale Agreement of Residence/Driving License/Flat Maintenance Bill*c. Utility bills like telephone bills (only landline), electricity bills or gas bills (not more than 3 months old)d. Identity Card with photo/document with address, issued by Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory/Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionse. For FII/subaccount, Power of Attorney given by FII/subaccount to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address.f. . If proof of address is in the name of the spouse, please provide a self-attested copy of the Identity Proof of the holder/claimant.g. Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) h. any other document as requiredThe security holder shall attach a self-certified copy of PAN along with the request.Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.Non-individuals including Society, Trust, Body Corporate, Partnership Firms, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, and holders of Power of Attorney cannot nominate.
What is Form SH-13? [SEP] SH-13 form is meant to help you make a nomination if you are an individual applying/ holding securities on your own behalf, singly or jointly. The nomination will be registered only when it is complete in all respects including the signature of1.  All registered holder(s) (as per specimen lodged with the Company) /RTA and2. The complete details of the nominee and witness being furnished. The Nominee will be entitled to all the rights in the securities upon demise of all holders in the folio.Non-individuals including Society, Trust, Body Corporate, Partnership Firm, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, holder of Power of Attorney cannot nominate.
What is Form SH-14? [SEP] SH-14 form is meant to help you make a new nomination if you are an individual applying/holding security on their own behalf singly or jointly.The new nomination will be registered only when it is complete in all respects including the signature of(a) all registered holders (as per specimen lodged with the Company / RTA ) and(b) the complete details of the new nominee and witness being furnished.A minor can be nominated as a new nominee by holder(s) of securities and in that event the name and address of the Guardian shall be furnished by the holder(s). Upon successful execution of SH-14, the earlier Nomination, if any, shall stand cancelled.Non-individuals including Society, Trust, Body Corporate, Partnership Firm, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, holder of Power of Attorney cannot nominate.
By when will the shareholder receive the amount related to the Buyback payments? [SEP] The shareholder will receive it within 7 to 10 working days from the close of the tendering period
Can a company buyback its shares without passing shareholders’ resolution? [SEP] Yes. A company may buyback its shares without shareholders’ resolution, to the extent of 10% of its paid up equity capital and reserves, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company. However, if a company intends to buyback its shares to the extent of more than 10% of its paid up capital and free reserves then the same has to be approved by shareholders by way of special resolution in term of the provisions of Companies Act, 2013
Can an investor revise or withdraw the application after applying in Buyback? [SEP] Yes, the investor can revise or withdraw the application till the time order status is “In-Process”. Once the order is accepted investors have to click on ‘cancel’ to withdraw their Application.
Can cash component of the escrow account in the buyback offer process be maintained in an interest bearing account? [SEP] Yes, the cash component of the escrow account may be maintained in an interest bearing account. However, the merchant banker shall ensure that the funds are available at the time of making payment to shareholders.
Can shareholding in multiple demat accounts with the same PAN as on record date be clubbed together? [SEP] In accordance with Regulation 9(ix) of the Buyback Regulations, in order to ensure that the same shareholders with multiple demat accounts/folios do not receive a higher entitlement under the Small Shareholder category, the Company will club together the Equity Shares held by such shareholders with a common PAN for determining the category (Small Shareholder or General) and entitlement under the Buyback. In case of joint shareholding, the Company will club together the Equity Shares held in cases where the sequence of the PANs of the joint shareholders is identical. In case of physical shareholders, where the sequence of PANs is identical, the Company will club together the Equity Shares held in such cases.Read moreThe shareholding of institutional investors like mutual funds, pension funds/trusts, insurance companies etc., with common PAN will not be clubbed together for determining the category and will be considered separately, where these Equity Shares are held for different schemes and have a different demat account nomenclature based on information prepared by the Registrar as per the shareholder records received from the Depositories.
Can the letter of offer be dispatched through electronic means? [SEP] Letter of offer can be dispatched through electronic means in accordance with the provisions in the Companies Act, 2013. However, on receipt of a request from any shareholder to receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical format, the same shall be provided. Besides this, for all those shareholders who do not have their email IDs registered with the company, the letter of offer shall be sent physically. This shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.
Can the shares under lock-in / pledged for margin be bought back by the Company? [SEP] No, lock-in/ pledged and non-transferable shares cannot be bought back.
Do you think, I should participate in this offer? Is this offer good? [SEP] We are not in a position to guide you in this matter and request you to obtain independent financial and legal advice with respect to your participation in the Buyback.
How does one participate in the buyback in case one does not receive the tender/offer form? [SEP] In case the equity shares are in dematerialised form: Eligible sellers can make an application by providing the application in writing on plain paper, signed by the eligible seller, stating name and address of eligible seller, number of equity shares held as on the record date, client ID number, DP name/ID, beneficiary account number and In case the equity shares are in physical form:Read moreEligible sellers can participate in the offer by providing the application in writing on plain paper signed by the eligible seller stating name, address, folio number, number of equity shares held, share certificate number, number of equity shares tendered for the buyback offer and the distinctive numbers thereof, enclosing the original share certificate(s), copy of eligible sellers’ PAN card(s) and executed share transfer form in favour of the company. Eligible sellers shall ensure that the relevant documents are tendered at the collection centres / registrar to the buyback offer, as mentioned in public announcement / letter of offer. In both cases above, eligible sellers will be required to approach their respective stock broker (along with the complete set of documents for verification procedures) and have to ensure that their bid is entered by its respective broker in the electronic platform to be made available by respective stock exchange, before the closing date as specified in public announcement / letter of offer.
How does one tender one’s shares for buyback in the tender offer method? [SEP] In case the equity shares are held in dematerialized form: Eligible sellers may tender the equity shares through their respective stock broker by indicating the details of equity shares to be tendered under the buyback offer, during the normal trading hours of secondary market. In case the equity shares are held in physical form: Eligible sellers shall approach their respective stock broker along with the complete set of documents, as stated in public announcement / letter of offer, for verification procedures.Read moreUpon placing the bid, the broker will provide a slip generated by the exchange bidding system to the eligible seller, confirming registration of transaction. 
How do I check my buyback entitlement in terms of number of equity shares? [SEP] For checking buyback entitlement, please follow the below steps:1. Click on https://web.linkintime.co.in/Offer/Default.aspx2. Select the name of the Company – ‘ Name of the Company under buyback offer’3. Select the option ‘Demat or Physical or PAN’4. Based on the option selected above, enter ‘DPID CLID’ or ‘Folio Number’ or ‘PAN’5. A table will be displayed setting out the Folio, Name and Action. Click on ‘View’ tab under the Action column6. The entitlement will be provided in the pre-filled ‘FORM OF ACCEPTANCE-CUM ACKNOWLEDGEMENT’.
I am a Non Resident, am I required to submit any approval from RBI for participating in this Buy back offer? [SEP] Please note that the buyback from the Eligible Shareholders who are residents outside India including foreign corporate bodies (including erstwhile overseas corporate bodies), foreign portfolio investors, non-resident Indians, members of foreign nationality, if any, shall be subject to the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and rules and regulations framed there under, if any, Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules and regulations framed there under, as applicable, and also subject to the receipt / provision by such Eligible Shareholders of such approvals, if and to the extent necessary or required from concerned authorities including, but not limited to, approvals from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and rules and regulations framed there under, if any.Read moreFurther, the Non-Resident Shareholders shall be responsible for reporting requirements for non-resident shareholders under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, as amended and any other rules, regulations, guidelines, for remittance of funds.
If I have multiple demat accounts as on Record Date, can I transfer my shares to one demat account and tender my combined entitlement/shareholding from that demat account? [SEP] Eligible Shareholders will have to tender their Equity Shares from the same demat account in which they were holding such Equity Shares as on the Record Date, and in case of multiple demat accounts, Eligible Shareholders are required to tender the applications separately from each demat account. In case of any changes in the demat account in which the Equity Shares were held as on Record Date, such Eligible Shareholders should provide sufficient proof of the same to the Registrar to the Buyback and such tendered Equity Shares may be accepted subject to appropriate verification and validation by the Registrar to the Buyback.
If my minor son/daughter has a demat account and if we want to participate in the offer, can I use my (as a parent) trading account to bid for his/her shares? [SEP] Since a minor cannot open a trading account, you can tender your minor son/daughter’s shares from your trading account if you are the legal guardian, if he is an Eligible Shareholder as on Record Date. You also need to write to the Registrar to the Buyback via letter/email stating the participation of your son/daughter in the Buyback along with the scan copy of the TRS, Tender Form, PAN Card of the parent and PAN Card of minor son/daughter. Please note the bid will get rejected if the letter/email does not reach the Registrar before the Buyback Closing Date.
I have a trading account with ABC Depository Participant(DP). How do I initiate the transaction online and indicate what part of my shareholding is to be tendered? [SEP] All shareholders holding shares on the Record Date will receive the details of their total holding and the entitlement along with the letter of offer. If you have an online trading account with ABC DP, you may tender the shares through the online portal by entering the number of shares. You may either tender your total entitlement or any portion of your holding or complete holding as on the Record Date. For any further queries, you are requested to contact the customer service of ABC DP.
I hold shares in physical form. How can I participate in the buyback? [SEP] If you hold shares in physical form on the Record Date, you would be communicated your entitlement along with the letter of offer. You may participate in the Buyback by approaching a BSE or NSE registered broker and open a trading account in case you don’t have one. Participation in the buyback would need to be through such a broker by providing complete set of documents for verification procedures to be carried out including the(i) original Equity Share certificate(s),(ii) valid share transfer form(s) i.e. Form SH-4 duly filled and signed by the transferors (i.e. by all registered Eligible Shareholders in same order and as per the specimen signatures registered with the Company) and duly witnessed at the appropriate place authorizing the transfer in favour of the Company,Read more(iii) self-attested copy of the Eligible Shareholder’s PAN Card,(iv) the Tender Form (duly signed by all Eligible Shareholders in case the Equity Shares are in joint names) the same order in which they hold Equity Shares, and(v) any other relevant documents such as, but not limited to, duly attested power of attorney, corporate authorization (including board resolution/specimen signature), notarized copy of death certificate and succession certificate or probated will, if the original Eligible Shareholder has deceased, etc., as applicable. Basis the entitlement ratio that would be calculated, you can tender the shares in the buyback during the tendering period, either in part or full.
In case of withdrawal, when shall I get back my shares back in my demat account? [SEP] On cancelling the application under Buyback, investors shall receive the shares offered under Buyback after its settlement date as defined by the exchange.
I read this Buyback is via “Tender offer”. What is that? What do you mean by “Tender offer”? [SEP] As per Regulation 2(1)(q) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 ‘tender offer’ means an offer by a company to buyback its own shares or other specified securities through a letter of offer from the holders of the shares or other specified securities of the company. In a “Tender offer” process, a shareholder will have to approach his selling member (stock broker) registered with the exchanges .For the buy back, the shareholder has to approach the selling member registered with BSE for tendering the shares, through the selling member (broker), using the Acquisition Window of the Designated Stock Exchange.
Is it compulsory to participate in this Buyback? [SEP] Participation in the Buyback is voluntary. Eligible Shareholders may choose to participate in part or in full or choose not to participate in the Buyback.
Is it compulsory to tender shares through a broker? How do I participate in the buyback if I don’t have a trading account? [SEP] The Shareholders who desire to tender their Equity Shares in the electronic form or physical form under the Buyback would have to open a trading account with any BSE or NSE registered broker and tender their shares through the broker by indicating the details of Equity Shares they intend to tender under the Buyback. The broker would be required to place an order/bid on behalf of the Shareholder who wish to tender Equity Shares in the Buyback using the Acquisition Window of the Stock Exchanges.
My address is changed now and I want my offer document to be posted to my new address and not the old address? [SEP] In case you hold Equity Shares in dematerialised form, you may send a request in writing to the Company or Registrar at the address or e-mail id mentioned at the cover page of the Letter of Offer stating name, address, number of Equity Shares held on Record Date, client ID number, DP name / ID, beneficiary account number, and upon receipt of such request, a physical copy of the Letter of Offer shall be provided to you. In case you hold Equity Shares in physical form, you may send a request by providing application in writing on a plain paper signed by all Eligible Shareholders (in case of joint holding) stating name, address, folio number, number of Equity Shares held, equity share certificate number,Read morenumber of Equity Shares tendered for the Buyback and the distinctive numbers thereof, enclosing the original Equity Share certificate(s), copy of Eligible Shareholder’s PAN card(s) and executed share transfer form in favour of the Company. Please be informed that this new address will not be updated in the records of the Company and if you need this to be updated then please write to the RTA of the Company.
What are the expenses/costs to be borne by shareholders? [SEP] Equity Shareholders who intend to participate in the Buyback should consult their respective broker for payment to them of any cost, applicable taxes, charges and expenses (including brokerage) that may be levied by the broker upon the selling Eligible Shareholder for tendering Equity Shares in the Buyback (secondary market transaction). Please contact your broker for said information.
What are the options available to Company to Buy Back its own shares? [SEP] The company can buy back its shares in any of the following manners:i. From the existing shareholders on a proportionate basis through the tender offer;ii. From open market through:a. Book building processb. Stock exchange;iii. From odd lot holders
What are the tax implications on Buyback? [SEP]  Buyback will be subjected to tax in the hands of the company. The consideration received by the shareholders will not be subject to tax. However, if there are any tax implications in any jurisdictions outside India, the same may be applicable.
What do you mean by “Tender offer”? [SEP]  'Tender offer' means an offer by a company to Buyback its own shares or other specified securities through a letter of offer from the holders of the shares or other specified securities of the company as on Record Date on a proportionate basis To facilitate the process, as permitted by SEBI, for the purpose of tendering the shares, the Company would be availing the facility for acquisition through a separate window to be provided by the stock exchange
What happens during the buyback ? [SEP] Based on the option available whether call or put, a notice of buyback will be given to the investors and a record date is fixed. All the investors who were available on the record date in case of call option or those investors who opted for buyback in case of put option will be taken into consideration and their bonds will be redeemed. The payments will be made to the accounts of the investors electronically and through warrant in case bank details are incomplete or not available 
What happens if I am holding shares in Physical form? Can I still participate in the Buyback offer? [SEP] Yes. Shareholders holding securities in physical form are allowed to tender shares in open offer, buy-back through tender offer route, and exit offer.
What is the Buyback Offer size? [SEP] The Buyback Offer size in terms of Equity Shares to be bought back, will be X-Quantum of Equity Shares and in terms amount will be approximately Rs.(Y-Quantum) in terms of Amount, which represents ( a certain percent ) of the total issued and paid-up equity share capital of the Company, as on a date ascertained by the Company.
What is the eligibility for buyback? [SEP] To be eligible for a buyback offer, the shares should be in the Demat account on the record date. It takes 2 trading days (i.e trading date +2) for shares to be deposited into the demat account and so ideally one should be buying at least 2 days prior to the record date to be eligible for the buyback.
What is the manner in which the Company decides the acceptances from each shareholder? [SEP] Acceptances will be on proportionate basis. The Company would determine the entitlement ratio of each eligible shareholder basis their holding as on the Record Date.The acceptances would be :(i) first with respect to their individual entitlement,(ii) as regards the additional shares tendered, it would be with respect to the additional shares tendered vis-à-vis the balance pool available for acceptance after meeting the entitlement category, on a proportionate basis. The details procedure for the same will be dispatched to the shareholders in the form of Letter of Offer.
What is the mode of Buyback implementation? [SEP] This Buyback offer will be implemented through “Tender Offer” route through the stock exchange mechanism, in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018, as amended from time to time.
What is the Record Date? [SEP] Record Date for the Buyback is the cut-of date as decided by the Company, for determining the Buyback Entitlement and the eligibility of the shareholders to participate in this Buyback.
What will be the impact of tax on buyback? [SEP] The Company will pay buyback tax as provided under the Income Tax Act, 1961. As the Company will pay the buyback tax, any proceeds would be exempt from taxation under the Income Tax Act, 1961 for the shareholders. However, non-resident shareholders may be subject to additional tax in their country of jurisdiction. Detailed note to taxation would form part of the letter offer. All shareholders are requested to consult their tax advisors.
What will happen to the shares repurchased/bought back?  [SEP] As required by the SEBI Buyback Regulations, the shares of the company bought back would be compulsorily extinguished.
When will the shareholder receive intimation about acceptance of his/her shares? [SEP] The shareholder would receive the intimation once their shares are accepted and settlement is completed post the completion of the tendering period.
When will the shareholder receive intimation about acceptance of his shares? [SEP] The company is required to send intimation to the tenderers within 7 to 10  working days from the closure of the offer.
When will the shareholder receive the consideration in the tender offer method? [SEP] The company is required to remit the consideration within 7 to 10  working days from the closure of the buyback offer.
Where can I inspect the documents related to Buyback? [SEP] Copies of certain documents may be  available for inspection electronically during the tendering period on the website of the Company or your may write to the Company, with letter marked to the Company Secretary - "Buy-Back offer- YYYY" 
Where can one get details of companies proposing to buyback their shares? [SEP] Listed companies are required to intimate the stock exchange of general meetings and resolutions passed thereof. Hence, information on companies proposing to buyback shares may be obtained from the stock exchanges. When the public announcement or offer document is filed with SEBI, the same is uploaded on the SEBI website, i.e., www.sebi.gov.in.
Why am I not being considered as an Eligible Shareholder for the buyback entitlement even though the shares were purchased prior to the record date? [SEP] Lets us understand that a Company has announced X-Date, as the Record date and the Stock Exchanges have announced X-1 Date,as the ex-date for buyback. Hence, any purchase of shares on or after ex-buyback date (or date as announce by exchange) will not be considered as Eligible shareholders as their name will not appear in the records of the Company as on the Record date.
Why have I not received an email regarding Buyback tender offer even though my email ID is registered? [SEP] Please check your mailbox/ spam folder. The email was sent from the email ID- of the Company offering buyback and/or form the RTA to the buyback offer.
Unblocking of funds through ASBA? [SEP] The latest SEBI Circular ,mandates SCSBs to ensure that the unblock process for non-allotted/partially allotted applications is completed by the closing hours of one Working Day subsequent to the finalisation of the Basis of Allotment. In case the funds are still blocked in the applicants accounts, they can approach the respective SCSBs/ Registrar to ensure their funds are unblocked immediately.
What is ASBA? [SEP] ASBA is the acronym for Applications Supported by Blocked Amounts. Investor is required to approach his banker to block the amount from his account for the application. This amount remains blocked in investor’s bank account and investor earns interest on the blocked amount. Investor’s banker then prepares bid based on the blocked amount and uploads the bid into the electronic book of the exchange. Post allotment process, registrar passes on necessary instruction to Investor’s banker to debit investor’s amount against allotment made, if any, and unblock the balance amount.
Bidding & Price Discovery [SEP] Select your question on Bid / Price Discovery
How many IPO Applications Can be Made from One Bank Account Using ASBA? [SEP] According to SEBI, an investor can make a maximum of five applications from one bank account per issue using ASBA.
What is bid-lot? [SEP] A Bid-lot is the pre-determined number of shares which have to be applied for by an investor. It is different for each issue. There is a minimum lot size which is pre-decided by the company and mentioned in the application form. Eg: Minimum bid lot in IPO of XYZ co. - 10 Bid-lot Multiples of 10 Price Band - 100-120. It means that a retail investor cannot apply for less than 10 shares in that particular issue. The application for more than 10 shares has to be in multiples of 10 like 20,30,40,etc
What is Book building ? [SEP] Book Building is basically a process used in Initial Public Offer (IPO) for efficient price discovery. It is a mechanism where, during the period for which the IPO is open, bids are collected from investors at various prices, which are above or equal to the floor price. The offer price is determined as per the various bids received within the price band after the bid closing date.
What is cut-off price & How is it decided? [SEP] A retail investor can bid at any price within the price band or can bid at cut-off. Cut-off means the investor is ready to pay whatever price is decided by the company at the end of the book building process. While making the application at Cut off, the investor is required to pay the amount at the highest price band.. The excess amount, in case the price discovered is lower, is refunded. Cut-off option can be exercised only by Retail Investors and Employees of the issuing company applying in the Employee Category.The company and the book running lead managers (BRLMs) decide the cut off price of the IPO after considering the book and analyzing the market’s response to the stock.
What is price discovery? [SEP] Based on demand at various prices, Issuer Company, in consultation with BRLMs decides the final price of the offer. The price thus finalized is called discovered price.
What is the meaning of a bid? [SEP] A bid in the context of Public offer of shares, is offer made by investor to the issuer for requisite quantity of securities at a price. The investor can choose any price within the specified price band of the issue. The price at which he wants to apply is the bid price. A bid is applicable only in case of book-building IPO.
Can an investor apply in an IPO through multiple applications with the same name? [SEP] No, one person cannot apply multiple times with the same Demat/PAN for an IPO. If an investor applies in an IPO through multiple applications with the same Demat account or same PAN Number, his/her application will be rejected.
Can I Apply for an IPO Through Multiple Applications on the Same Name? [SEP] No. You cannot apply in an IPO through multiple applications with the same name. If an investor tries doing it, then all the applications made under the same name will be rejected. Another way of doing this is to apply in the name of different family members. Just remember that the applicant should have a Demat account and PAN.
Can I revise or withdraw the bids after applying in the issue? [SEP] Yes, the investor can revise or withdraw the bids only once the order is accepted. The investor needs to go to the IPO Order Book and select the order status and then click on modify to revise the bid and click on cancel to withdraw the Application/ Revise Bid.
Can You Sell the Stocks Before the IPO gets Listed? [SEP] No, you can sell the shares only after the IPO shares are listed on the exchanges.
How are investors categorized? [SEP] a)	Qualified Institutional Bidders (QIBs) - who are the domestic and foreign institutions (which are registered with SEBI) which are eligible to apply in the public offers. These institutions normally apply for very large amounts.b) Retail Investors - The investors who invest up to maximum of Rs.2,00,000 (Rs. Two Hundred Thousand), are defined as Retail Investors.c)	Non Institutional Investors - Those Investors who are neither in the QIB Category nor in the Retail Investor Category are defined as Non Institutional Investors.Note: In some IPOs a certain number of shares issued are reserved for employees of the issuing company.
How can you check the status of IPO Application on the web site? [SEP] To know the status of alotment kindly click here. Click on and you would get the page. Select the desired company. Choose the option depending on whether your account is with NSDL or CDSL. Enter the details as per the option whether you want full details or only allotment details. Submit the same, and within moments the results would be displayed to you on the screen.
How Different is QIB From an Anchor Investor? [SEP] First, an Anchor Investor falls under the category of a Qualified Institutional Buyer or QIB. Here are some differences: The Anchor Investor needs to apply for shares worth more than Rs.10 crore The bidding price is different for anchor investors and QIBs Of the total QIB allocation, up to 60% can be reserved for anchor investors Anchor investors are not allowed to sell their shares up to 30 days from the date of allotment of the said shares via an IPO.Read moreOne important aspect of an anchor investor is that if the cut-off price is lower than the bid price of an anchor investor, the excess amount is not refunded to them. Since they invest more than Rs.10 crore, their participation encourages smaller investors to apply.
How much money is blocked in my bank account? [SEP] Investors can place up to 3 bids in an IPO application. For instance, the price range of an IPO is Rs. 100 to Rs. 120. investor can place the following bids:Bid 1. 10 shares at Rs. 100Bid 2. 15 shares at Rs. 110Bid 3. 20 shares at Rs 120In the above scenario, the blocked amount is the highest of the three bids. The highest bid amount shall be Rs 2400 (10*110= 1000 ,15*110 = 1650, 20*120 = 2400 ). Hence, Rs 2400 shall be blocked.
Till what time shall my money be blocked in IPO? [SEP] The money will be blocked until the finalization of allotment, post which the amount equivalent to allotted shares would be debited, and the balance amount (in case of partial allotment) will be unblocked.
What are the special points investors should take care of while applying in the IPO [SEP] Please ensure your Demat Account Number and PAN is clearly written without any smudging or overwriting. Your payment details like account number in case of ASBA / UPI ID, etc. are clearly written. Your bid is for the proper bid lot and a price within the bid range. The order of names in the application is the same as in your DP account. Kindly ensure that the application form is duly signed.
What are the timings for applying in an IPO? [SEP] Order received between 10 AM till 4:30 PM on trading days shall be immediately placed on Exchange and order received after 4.30 PM shall be placed on Exchange on the next day. Timings for the last day of IPO close day, shall be notified on IPO order page.
What do you do if you have been allotted shares, but you have not received the credit to your demat account? [SEP] Ensure that your DP account is active and is in a ready state for receiving credits. Provide a copy of your Client Master to Registrar to enable the upload of your allotted shares in your account. A copy can be sent by Email/ Fax/Scanned image.
What is the maximum no. of bids allowed per investor? [SEP] An investor can place a maximum of 3 bids in an issue.
What is the Procedure to Withdraw from an IPO? [SEP] You need to login to the broker’s account from where you made the application and go to the order book. Next, you need to select the specific IPO and choose to withdraw. The money that was blocked for the application will be released within a couple of days. However, it is important to remember that you can withdraw only during the bidding period. If the IPO does not have an online withdrawal option, then you need to contact the broker/bank through whom you applied.
What is the role of Registrar in an IPO ? [SEP] The Registrar’s role in an IPO can be divided into three phases: Pre-IPO, when the Registrar completes all preparatory work for the IPO, including instructing the escrow / ASBA bankers about the procedures they have to follow and the timelines to which they have to adhere and also informs the said company in regards to the validation of payments. Post-IPO closure but pre Listing –, during which the Registrar receives the Final BID file from the exchanges, validates the same, and coordinates with the bankers to ensure that final collection certificates are received along with bank schedules/data. for reconciliation with final bid files received from Stock Exchanges.Read moreThe Registrar identifies all other technical and multiple rejections. The Registrar after considering all the rejections, and after reconciling the banked bids with the Final Bid file, prepares the basis of allotment in consultation with the BRLMs and Issuer , and submits this basis for approval to the Stock Exchange. Upon approval by the Stock Exchange, the Registrar proceeds with the allotment of shares, ensures that the electronic files for credit of shares and debit and unblocking files to SCSBs are properly prepared and ensures the completion of all these processes within the prescribed time limits.Read morePost allotment / listing phase during which the Registrar attends to all the complaints and strives for speedy resolution of the same.
What is the timeline by which the allotment process is to be completed ? [SEP] As per current norms, the equity shares issued in IPO / FPO have to be listed, on or before the 6th working day after the issue/ offer is closed. The revised timeline is as per the SEBI Circular dated August 09, 2023, bearing reference no: SEBI/HO/CFD/TPD1/CIR/P/2023/140. it has been decided to reduce the time taken for the listing of specified securities after the closure of public issue to 3 working days (T+3 days) as against the present requirement of 6 working days (T+6 days); ‘T’ being the issue closing date. On a voluntary basis for public issues opening on or after September 1, 2023, and - Mandatory for public issues opening on or after December 1, 2023. 
When can you trade in the new shares? [SEP] You can trade in new shares after they are listed and after ensuring that the allotted shares have been credited into your Demat Account. As per current rules, you cannot affect any off market transfers from your account till the shares are listed.
Who is a BRLM? [SEP] A BRLM is the Book Running Lead Manager, who manages the entire IPO exercise and acts as the guide to the issuer in all matters relating to the public issue. The BRLM, should be a SEBI- registered Category I or II Merchant Banker, and is responsible for preparing and filing the Offer Document of Issue with SEBI & Registrar of Companies (ROC).The BRLM ensures that all information presented before the investing public is proper. The BRLM advises the company on the price band, the timing of the issue etc. BRLM is required to market the issue. The BRLM also co-ordinates between the company and other intermediaries like registrars, legal advisors, bankers etc.
Who is a registrar to the Issue? [SEP] A Registrar to an Issue is a SEBI-registered entity, qualified to act as such, and who electronically processes all the applications and carries out the allotment process, as per the rules/prospectus. The Registrar is responsible for complying with the time deadlines of updating the electronic credit of shares to the successful applicants, dispatching/uploading of refunds and attending to all investor related queries after the issue is completed. Usually, the Registrar continues to work with the company, even after the IPO, as its Registrar and Transfer Agent.
Who is a Sponsor Bank ? [SEP] The Banker to the Offer registered with SEBI, which has been appointed by the Company to act as a conduit between the Stock Exchanges and NPCI in order to push the UPI Mandate Request and/or payment instructions of the Retail Investors using the UPI and carry out other responsibilities, in terms of the UPI Circulars
Who is a Syndicate Member/Broker? [SEP] A Syndicate Member/Broker is a member of the Stock Exchange to whom the investor must submit the IPO Bid/Application form. The Syndicate Member / Broker receives the bid and uploads the same onto the electronic book of the stock exchange. Bids that are not uploaded into the electronic book are not considered for the purpose of allotment. The Syndicate Member/Broker then submits the bid with application to the Self Certified Syndicate Bank (SCSB) physically or through UPI mode. In the case of an online application, the Syndicate Member/Broker generates the electronic application form and submits the same to the registrar with proof of having paid the bid amount.
Why does the credit of shares not happen? [SEP] Credit to your demat account does not happen, if a) Your demat account is not active and there is a bar on accepting credits to your account. b) Your demat account number is not accepted by the system as a result of mismatch of data. c) Your demat account as provided in bid file is erroneous.
Why is a demat account necessary for applying in an IPO? [SEP] As per SEBI guidelines shares allotted out of IPOs / FPOs can be given to investors only in demat mode hence it is mandatory to have demat account. Application not having demat account or improper demat account is rejected.
Why is PAN important? [SEP] As per SEBI guidelines, all applicants are required to provide their PAN while applying in an Issue. Application without PAN or with invalid PAN is rejected. Investors are requested to ensure that their DP account is updated with proper PAN details.
Why is the Maximum Subscription Amount for Retail Investors Limited to Rs 2 lakh? [SEP] SEBI has classified investors into three broad categories – RIIs, NIIs, and QIBs. It has also mandated companies to reserve a fixed percentage of the IPO to each category as shown below: RII – Retail Individual Investor – 35% of the IPO NII – Non-Institutional Investor – 15% of the IPO QIB – Qualified Institutional Bidder – 50% of the IPO study.Read moreSEBI decided to cap the investment amount at Rs.2 lakh for an investor to qualify as a retail investor. The benefit of applying as a retail investor is that SEBI governs the allotment methodology in this category and ensures that a maximum number of retail investors receive the allotment. On the other hand, in the case of NIIs, the allotment is proportionate and for QIBs it is discretionary. To ensure that the shares reach the mass
Why is your Demat Account No.(DP-ID & Client-ID) Important? [SEP] The DP-ID + Client ID, is the definitive identification of the applicant. Demat account fed into electronic bid file, is used to credit shares as well as remit refund. Registrar is required to process application based on bid file and in absence of any other possible validation, wrong but valid demat account, can lead to wrong refund / credit of shares. bid file, Thus it is very important that the Demat Account Number is stated correctly in the application form.
Are all categories of investors eligible to apply in public issues using UPI for  payment? [SEP] No. Only individual investors are allowed to use UPI for payment in public issues as Retail Investors and Non-Institutional Investors.
Are Karta/HUF and Minor account holders are eligible to access UPI in ASBA facility? [SEP] SEBI circular only specifies that applications made by retail individual investors using third party UPI id or by any category of investors using a third party bank account are liable for rejection.SEBI has not restricted any individual investor from accessing UPI in ASBA facility based on mode of operation of investors account.While some banks allow to create UPI Id for Karta/HUF and minor accounts, it is within the bank’s discretion to decide whether Karta/HUF/minors will be allowed to create the UPI id. However, SEBI has facilitated that the IPO applications including those from Karta/HUF and Minor accounts can be submitted directly to the ASBA banks.
Are second / third / joint account holders in a bank account restrained from using the  same account for payment in public issues? [SEP] No specific restriction has been imposed by SEBI on use of bank account by second/third/joint holder. However, third party applications will not be considered valid for allotment.
Can I apply in a public issue using UPI ID with my Account +IFSC? [SEP] No. The investors must apply by providing their UPI ID only, on which the request for blocking the amount shall be received.
Can I apply on the first day of an IPO using UPI and decline on the last day? [SEP] Yes. The investor can decline the mandate transaction on the last day provided he/she have not accepted the UPI mandate successfully. In case mandate is successfully accepted, the investor can withdraw/delete/cancel the application by approaching the intermediary through which the original application was submitted. Alternately, theinvestors can choose to not act on the mandate which expires automatically on T+1 (T: Issue Closure Date) at 12:00 PM.
Can I modify the parameters, like bid quantity, price, amount, etc., when I receive a block request in public issues? [SEP] No, the values in the block request cannot be modified on the UPI application. Any modification to the bid details, including the amount, has to be undertaken by approaching the intermediary to whom the application form was originally submitted. Upon modification of bid amount by the intermediary, you will receive a fresh mandate block request with revised amount, which needs to be again authorized by entering your UPI PIN. Intermediaries providing the web/mobile interface also provide the modification option on their platform.
Can I use a third party UPI ID or a third-party bank account for making payment in FPO? [SEP] No, applications made by retail investors using third party UPI ID or by any category of investors using a third-party bank account are liable for rejection.
Can I use my existing UPI ID for applying in public issues? [SEP] The bank account associated with the UPI ID is held with a bank whose name is appearing in the ‘List of SCSBs eligible to act as an Issuer Bank’ available on website of SEBI.The investors shall be using a mobile application and a UPI handle that supports use of UPI for public issues. A list of such applications and handles appears in the ‘List of Mobile Applications for using UPI in Public Issues’ available on website of SEBI.  Investors, whose bank is not providing the UPI Mandate facility, may use the other alternate channels available to them viz. submission of physical application form with Self Certified Syndicate Bank or using the facility of linked online trading, demat and bank account.
Can I use third party UPI ID or a third party bank account for making payment in public  issues? [SEP] No. Applications made by retail investors using third party UPI id or by any category of investors using a third party bank account will not be considered valid for allocation.
How can I apply for an IPO using UPI as a payment option? [SEP] Investors need to fill in the bid details along with their UPI id linked to his/her own bank account
How can “UPI as a payment option” be used in the public issue process”? [SEP] UPI as part of biddingInvestor can fill in the bid details in the application form or the mobile device / web interface of the intermediary along with his/her UPIID. As per the existing process, investor may submit the application or fill in the bid detailson the mobile device / web interface with any of the intermediaries (Syndicate Member / Registered Stock Brokers / Registrar and Transfer Agents / Depository Participants), who, on receipt of application will upload the bid details along with UPI id in the stock exchange bidding platform.The stock exchange will electronically share the bid details, along with investors UPI id, with the Sponsor Bank appointed by the issuer company. Read moreUPI as part of blocking of fundsThe Sponsor Bank will request the investor to authorize blocking of funds equivalent to application amount and subsequently debit the funds in case of allotment.The request raised by the Sponsor Bank, would be electronically received by the investor as an SMS/intimation on his / her bank provided mobile no./mobile app associated with UPIID. Upon validation of mandate fund block request by the investor by entering his UPI PIN, the said information would be electronically received by the investors’ bank, where the funds, equivalent to application amount, would get blocked in investors account.Intimation regarding confirmation of such block of funds in investors account would also be received by the investor.
How do I know that my modification mandate request is successful? [SEP] Once the successful modification is done, a confirmation will appear on the UPI mobile application.
How do I select UPI as the payment option while applying for public issues? [SEP] The application form for an IPO, now also includes a field for entering your UPI ID as a payment mechanism. Further, Investors can get in touch with any of the intermediaries who shall be able to guide them on the process in detail.
How is public issue application using UPI different from public issue application  using ASBA submitted with intermediaries? [SEP] Public issue application using UPI is a step towards digitizing some of the offline processes Involved in the application process by moving the same online. This requires an investor to create a UPI ID and PIN using any of the UPI enabled mobile applications of SCSBs. The UPI ID can be used for blocking of funds in the bank account and making payment in the public issue process. An investor can accept the request to block the funds for the amount bid by entering the UPI PIN in his/her mobile application. The money shall be Blocked and shall be automatically remitted to the Escrow Bank, in case of allotment. In case of non-allotment, the funds shall be unblocked by the SCSBs. UPI in public issue process will essentially bring in comfort, ease of use and reduce the listing time for publicissues.
In what scenarios will my funds be unblocked? [SEP] The money in the investors account will be unblocked in case the allotted shares are less than the bid quantity, or in case of an unsuccessful application or in case of revocation of a block request. Further, in case of cancellation of the bid post successful mandate block is created, the funds shall be released online.
Is It Possible to Apply for an IPO Using the BHIM Application? [SEP] Yes, SEBI has permitted the use of UPI ID (that can be created by using BHIM application) for IPO application. At the time of filling the application form, you need to specify your UPI ID and submit it. The broker will send a request for blocking the funds to your UPI mobile application. You need to log in to the application and approve the block mandate. The amount applied for will be blocked in your bank account Post blocked in your bank account. Post allotment, the exact amount will be debited (based on the allotment) and the excess amount will be unblocked.
Is there any timeline by which I need to act upon the block request? [SEP] Yes. As per the indicative activity wise timeline prescribed in the SEBI Circular dated November 01, 2018, all block/collect requests which have not been acted upon by 12.00 pm on T+1 working day i.e. one working day after closure of the issue, would lapse.
Is use of UPI, as a payment mechanism in public issues, mandatory? [SEP] Yes. UPI mechanism is mandatory for all applications made by individual investors through the intermediaries, provided the application amount is upto Rs.5 Lakhs.
Till what time can I authorize the modification request for parameters like bid quantity, price, amount etc? [SEP] All modification requests initiated can be acted upon before 12:00 pm on T+1 working day i.e. one working day after closure of the issue.
Till what time will the amount remain blocked in my account in the public issue process? [SEP] The amount will be blocked till the finalization of allotment, post which the amount equivalent to allotted shares would be debited and balance amount (in case of partial allotment) will be unblocked by the SCSB. In case the amount is not unblocked post the finalization of allotment, you may approach your bank and request them to unblock thefunds manually.
Till when can I revoke a block request? [SEP] A mandate request once created can be revoked during the issue period till closure of the issue. The revoke can be initiated through the intermediary with whom the application was submitted. Intermediaries providing the web/mobile interface also provide the modification option on their platform.Investors should not approve a mandate block request post cancelling the bid on the exchange platform. This shall result in delay in releasing the funds blocked in the bank account.
Unblocking of funds through ASBA / UPI modes? [SEP] The latest SEBI Circular ,mandates SCSBs to ensure that the unblock process for non-allotted/partially allotted applications is completed by the closing hours of one Working Day subsequent to the finalisation of the Basis of Allotment. In case the funds are still blocked in the applicants accounts, they can approach the respective SCSBs/ Registrar to ensure their funds are unblocked immediately.
Up to what limit can I apply for a public issue inUPI? [SEP] The limit for an IPO application made by individual investors through UPI is Rs. 5 Lakhs. However, the retail individual investors limit shall continue to be upto Rs. 2 Lakhs. Thus, the applications where the application amount is greater than Rs. 2 Lakhs and upto Rs. 5 Lakhs shall be considered under Non Institutional Investors category.
What does revoking a block request mean? [SEP] Revoking a mandate request is cancellation of a block request pursuant to cancellation of an IPO bid.
What happens if I change my default account before execution i.e. settlement of the block request? [SEP] Execution of the mandate is independent of the default account and will be executed against the same account which was linked at the time of creating the mandate.
What happens if I change my UPI ID after my amount is blocked / modification of mandate / before execution of block request for IPO? [SEP] Execution of the mandate request / block request is independent of the UPI ID and will be executed against the same account which was used at the time of creating the mandate irrespective of the fact that the UPI id was changed at a later stage.
What happens if I deregister from the UPI App after accepting the block request? [SEP] De-registration will not be available from the application until the active requests are revoked /executed.
What happens if I do not authorize the modification request? [SEP] Post the expiry time of the modification request, the modification request would lapse and the execution will take place based on the earlier approved request / mandate which shall remain active on the original application.
What happens if I do not get any shares but my money is debited in this process? [SEP] In case no shares have been allotted and money is debited from the investors account, you may raise a complaint along with the application details, either from the UPI App or approach the bank / RTA / Merchant Banker / the intermediary with whom the application was submitted.
What happens if I do not get any shares but my money remains blocked? [SEP] In case no shares have not been allotted to the investor and money is not unblocked / reinstated in the account, the investor may raise a complaint through the UPI App or approach the Merchant Banker/ SCSB / RTA with whom the application was submitted.
What happens if I do not receive the shares and my amount is also not debited? [SEP] The investors money shall be unblocked/reinstated to the account with the expiry of the mandate period in case shares are not allotted to the investor.
What happens if I don’t get a block request from the intermediary on the UPI id that was entered in the application form? [SEP] In such a case, the investor may approach the same intermediary to whom the application form was submitted for re-initiating the process. The investor may also like to check whether the UPI id recorded is correct or not and that the UPI app is updated/Up-to-date.
What happens if I have not accepted the mandate on my UPI app? [SEP] In case you have not accepted the mandate on your UPI app, your IPO application is liable for rejection
What happens if revoking of a block request fails due to technical error? [SEP] In such a case, the investors would need to re-initiate the revoke request. Such re-initiation can be done through the intermediary with whom the application was submitted. Further, the bank shall unblock the funds in the bank account in the offline mechanism. Investors should not approve a mandate block request post cancelling the bid on theexchange platform. This shall result in delay in releasing the funds blocked in the bank account.
What if I do not want to proceed with the public issue application after submission with intermediary? Can I withdraw my bid? If yes,how? [SEP] As per the extant legal framework, retail individual investors can withdraw bids till issue closure date. During the bidding period you may approach the same intermediary with whom the application form was submitted, for withdrawal of bid. Intermediaries providing the web/mobile interface also provide the modification/cancellation option on their platform.
What if more money is debited than the allocated shares? [SEP] In case amount more than allotment value is debited, the investor may raise a complaint with the Lead Manager / bank / RTA / from the UPI App / through any other mode along with Unique Mandate Number and application details.
What if my amount is blocked twice for a single block request? [SEP] In such a case, the investor may raise a complaint with the bank/Lead Manager providing the requisite details including the Unique Mandate Number for the unblock request.
What if my bank is not providing UPI service for public issues? [SEP] In case the bank is not providing UPI services for public issues, the investors may make use of their bank account for directly blocking of funds and submit the application with the bank, provided it is recognized by SEBI as a SCSB.
What is a UPI ID? [SEP] UPIID (also called Virtual Payment Addressor VPA) is a unique ID for using UPI. The UPI Id can be created by registering with one of the UPI enabled mobile applications (App) using the investors bank account details.
What is UPI ? [SEP] Unified Payments Interface (UPI) is an instant payment system developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), an RBI regulated entity. 
What is UPI Mandate request? [SEP] A request (intimating the Retail Individual Investor, by way of a notification on the UPI linked mobile application as disclosed by SCSBs on the website of SEBI and by way of an SMS directing the Retail Individual Investor to such UPI linked mobile application) to the Retail Individual Investor using the UPI Mechanism initiated by the Sponsor Bank to authorize blocking of funds equivalent to the Bid Amount in the relevant ASBA Account through the UPI linked mobile application, and the subsequent debit of funds in case of Allotment
Where can an investor submit his UPI application for any grievances in the issue procedure? [SEP] Investor should first approach the intermediary to whom the application was submitted. For complaints with respect to blocking / unblocking of funds, investor may approach the bank. For complaints with respect to non-allotment of shares, investor may approach the registrar to the issue. If the investor is not satisfied with the response, investor can approach the stock exchange. In case, where the investor is not satisfied with the response of any of the intermediaries, investors may submit a complaint with SEBI click here
Where can I submit either the electronic or physical application form with UPI as a payment mechanism? [SEP] Electronic or Physical Application forms with UPI as a payment mechanism can only be submitted with, a Syndicate Member, or a Registered Stock Broker, or a Registrar and Transfer Agent or a or Depository Participant (‘Intermediaries’). The investor may also use the online facility (if provided) of stock brokers for seamless bidding in IPOs.
Where will I get an option to apply in a public issue using UPI? [SEP] Public issue using UPI may be initiated through any of the intermediaries. The UPI id can be given to the intermediary to whom the application form is being submitted. Alternately, the stock broker’s mobile application/web facility can be used for online application submission. All requests for blocking the bid amounts shall be received by the investor, onhis/her UPI id / App. The investor would need to enter the UPI PIN to accept the mandate request for blocking the funds against the bank account.
Who should I approach if I face issues with the block request? My bank or through my mobile / PSP app? [SEP] While the request can be re-initiated in case of any technical issues the investor may also reinitiate with another bank account or a different UPI application. In such a case, customer can reach out to their bank/PSP with the Unique Mandate Number (UMN) of the block request.
Will I be notified when the bid is successfully placed? [SEP] Yes. Once the bid details are uploaded on the stock exchange platform, the stock exchange shall send an SMS to the investor regarding registration of the bid, on end of day basis or on the next working day. Further, the investor shall receive a SMS notification on the UPI enabled mobile device stating that a mandate block request is received in UPI.
Will I be notified when the shares are allotted? [SEP] Under the UPI framework, the investor will be notified of the debit of funds from the bank account. However, the process of communicating the share allotment process shall be separate, as per the extant process.
Will I be prompted to authorize the modified request? [SEP] Yes. The customer will receive notification on mobile application as well as an SMS for authorizing the modification request.
Will the existing non-UPI channels for making application in public issues be available for individual investors after introduction of UPI? [SEP] Yes. The below channels shall continue to remain for submission of applications by Individual Investors.Directly to SCSBs (Bank ASBA).3-in-1 type accounts (Direct Online).
What is an IPO? [SEP] An IPO is an Initial Public Offer made by a company (issuer) offering shares or debentures or other tradable security to the public at large. An IPO is either for a) Fresh issue of capital, where the funds are received by the issuing Company.b) Offer for Sale – where the existing shareholders (usually promoters), sell their holding, in which case the funds do not go to the company but only to the offering shareholders.c) Combination of a) and b) above.
What is Floor price and Cut-off Price? [SEP] The floor price is the minimum price at which an investor can place a bid in a book building issue. On the other hand, the cut-off price is the price at which the company allots the shares and the investor agrees to buy it at the said price.
What is ‘Market Lot Size’ and ‘Minimum Order Quantity’ for an IPO? [SEP] When a company launches an IPO, it specifies the minimum number of shares that an investor can apply for. This is known as the IPO bid lot or market lot size or minimum order quantity. For example, if a company specifies the minimum order quantity as 100 shares and the investor wants to purchase more than 100, then the application can be made in multiples of 100 only. Hence, the investor can apply for 100 shares, 200 shares, 300 shares, and so on. 
What is the difference between a first time issue (IPO) and a follow-on public offer(FPO)? [SEP] IPO comprises of offer for subscription made by such company whose shares are not listed on any stock exchange for trading. Whereas FPO is offer made by already listed company to issue additional securities. For already listed company, investor may decide to buy from the market or subscribe to the offer made by the Company.
What is the difference between Fixed Price Public Offers and Book Built IPO? [SEP] Fixed Price Offer, is an issue in which the price of the security offered is fixed by the issuer. Investor is required to make application for the desired quantity of shares at the fixed offer price.. On the other hand, in a Book Built Issue, Price is discovered through the bidding mechanism. Usually, a band (range) of the price is announced, and interested investors apply or bid for the security within this band i.e. the application can be for any price within this range
What is the Difference between Floor Price and Cut- Off Price for a Book Building Issue? [SEP] In a book building issue, the company does not determine the final price at which it will allot the shares. Instead, it offers a price range to investors. An investor can bid at any price in the price range decided by the company. The lowest price at which an investor can place a bid is known as the Floor Price. On the other hand, the highest price at which an investor can place a bid is known as the Cap Price of the IPO.For example, if a company launches an IPO with a price range of 250-300, then Floor Price = Rs.250 Cap Price = Rs.300 If the allotment price is Rs.275, then investors who at Rs.275 and above will receive the allotment.Read moreHowever, there is one more option to bid in a book building issue –Cut-off Price. For all practical purposes, this is like bidding at the Cap Price since the investor has to pay the highest price (or Cap Price) while placing the bid. Hence, despite not specifying the bid amount, he will receive the allotment at Rs.275 and a refund of the balance amount.
What is the difference between Public & Rights Issue? [SEP] Accredited investors can buy the offered shares without any restriction of their existing holdings. In a rights issue, the company does offer the rights issue of shares through a public offering. In a private placement, the company does not offer their stocks through a public offering.
What is the Difference Between RII, NII, QIB, and Anchor Investor? [SEP] When a company launches an IPO, it has various categories under which investors can invest: RII – Retail Individual Investor NII – Non-Institutional Investor QIB – Qualified Institutional Bidder Anchor Investor RII – Retail Individual Investor This is the most common category of investors bidding in an IPO. This category Resident Indian individuals, non-resident Indians (NRIs), and Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) The maximum amount of investment is Rs.2 lakh A minimum of 35% of the IPO is reserved for the RII category Investors from this category can bid at the cut-off price.Read moreNII – Non-Institutional Investor If an investor qualifies to bid under the RII category but wishes to invest more than Rs.2 lakh, then he falls under the NII category. This category includes:Resident Indian individuals, non-resident Indians (NRIs), Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs), corporate bodies, companies, trusts, science institutions, and societies Investors can invest more than Rs.2 lakh A minimum of 15% of the IPO is reserved for the RII category Investors from this category cannot bid at the cut-off price.Read moreQIB – Qualified Institutional Bidder: This category includes: Mutual funds, public financial institutions, foreign portfolio investors, and commercial banks, etc. 50% of the offer size is reserved for this category Investors from this category cannot bid at the cut-off price.Read moreAnchor Investor : This is a QIB making an application of more than Rs.10 crore in a book building issue. This category includes:Resident Indian individuals, non-resident Indians (NRIs), Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs), corporate bodies, companies,trusts, science institutions, and societies Investors making more than Rs.10 crore application Investors from this category cannot bid at the cut-off price Up to 60% of the QIB category can be allocated to this category.
Can a rights issue application be made through ASBA? [SEP] Yes, one can apply for rights like in an IPO through ASBA. However, Please note that all Eligible Equity Shareholders (other than renouncees and holding equity shares in physical form) who are QIBs, Non-Institutional Investors (including all companies and body corporates) and other retail Applicants whose application amount exceeds Rs.2,00,000 can participate in the Issue only through the ASBA process 
Can shareholders holding Equity Shares in physical form apply through ASBA? [SEP] Shareholders holding Equity Shares in physical form, are supposed to furnish the details of their demat accountto the RTA or the Company at least two Working Days prior to the Issue Closing Date, desirous of subscribing to Rights Equity Shares after which they can apply through ASBA facility.
How to withdraw an Application made through ASBA? [SEP] An Investor who has applied in the Issue may withdraw their Application at any time during the Issue period by approaching the SCSB where application is submitted or sending the email withdrawal request to the registrar. However, no Investor, may withdraw their Application after the Issue is Closed.
Are PAN details compulsory? [SEP] Yes, Irrespective of the application amount, PAN is to be compulsorily mentioned in the application form for all holders
Can a joint bank account be used to make applications on behalf of shareholders? [SEP] In case of joint holder Applications made through ASBA process, all joint holders must sign the relevant part of the Application Form in the same order and as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the SCSB. In case of Joint Applicants, reference, if any, will be made in the first Applicant’s name and all communication will be addressed to the first Applicant 
Can an application in the rights Issue be made using third party bank account? [SEP] No, Investors can make payment only using bank account held in their own name. Please note that Applications made with payment using third party bank accounts are liable to be rejected. 
Can I apply for additional shares in the rights issue apart from my entitlement? [SEP] Yes, applicants can apply for any number of additional shares but the allotment of the same will depend on shares available for apportionment and will also be in proportion to your holding, irrespective of additional shares applied by applicants.
Can I sell the shares on the record date and still get the rights issue benefit? [SEP] If you have the shares in your holdings as on the record date, even if you sell on the record date you’ll still be eligible to apply for the rights.
Can the same application form  be used both by shareholder or renounce ? [SEP] Yes, same application form can be used both by shareholder or renouncee.
Do the investor also has an option to make an application on a plain paper? [SEP] In terms of Regulation 78 of the ICDR Regulations, investor also has option to make an application in writing on a plain paper.
For Issuance of newspaper advertisement, as per Regulation 84 (1) of ICDR Regulations, within how many days dispatch shall be completed by the issuer ? [SEP] Issuance of newspaper advertisement disclosing date of completion of dispatch and intimation of same to the stock exchanges for dissemination on their websites, as per Regulation 84 (1) of ICDR Regulations, shall be completed by the issuer at least 2 days before the date of opening of the issue.
How do I check Allotment Status for Rights Offer? [SEP] Click here to know the status of Allotment under Rights Issue.
How do I make an Application on Plain Paper ? [SEP] You can also participate in Rights Issue, by using our link "Application format -Plain Paper".As per the details provided by you in the web portal, the Rights Form shall be mailed to you on the email-id provided.
I am getting an error on the RTA's website - "Details do not exist in Record Date." [SEP] If you have purchased REs from the secondary market then try applying under the ‘renouncee’ category.
I don’t have any securities on the record date, can I still purchase REs through my broker account and then buy the shares against the RE? [SEP] Yes, you can purchase the REs, and ensure the same are credited on or before Rights Issue Closure and ensure funds are also blocked before the rights issue closes.
Is it necessary to apply in the application form received or  can we  use any other form? [SEP] It is not necessary to apply only in the application form sent. The shareholder can apply on plain paper format, which should contain all the essential fields. Forms can also be downloaded from the company’s or Registrar's website, during the period the rights issue remains open.Read moreTo make an application on plain paper click here? Please note that the Eligible Equity Shareholders who are making the Application on plain paper shall not be entitled to renounce their Rights Entitlements. Applications on plain paper will not be accepted from any address outside India. 
Is trading approval from SEs to be obtained for trading of REs by issuer? [SEP] The issuer shall submit details of total REs credited to the stock exchanges immediately after completing the corporate action for the same and shall obtain requisite trading approval from the stock exchanges.
Is withdrawal permitted? [SEP] No withdrawal of application shall be permitted by any shareholder after the issue closing date.
The company has announced a rights issue in the ratio of 1:15. If I have 10 shares of the company in my one demat account and 5 shares in another demat account, am I eligible for exercising the rights? [SEP] The RTA does a folio wise check for the eligibility. Although the same PAN would be mapped to both your demat accounts, the shares would be held in separate folios in the RTA’s records. This means that you will receive "zero" rights entitlements in a scenario where you have 10 shares in one demat account and 5 shares in another.
What are the changes in issue timeline for processing rights issue under new process? [SEP] The period for advance notice to stock exchange(s) under Regulation 42(2) of LODR Regulations has been reduced from at least 7 working days to at least 3 working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date), for the purpose of rights issue. Issuance of newspaper advertisement disclosing date of completion of dispatch and intimation of same to the stock exchanges for dissemination on their websites, as per Regulation 84 (1) of ICDR Regulations, shall be completed by the issuer at least 2 days before the date of opening of the issue.
What are the information printed on CAF and Intimation Letter? [SEP]  What are the information printed on CAF and Intimation Letter? § Rights Entitlements, Procedure for Application in the Issue, Renunciation of Rights Entitlements & Issue Schedule
What are the options available to an Eligible Equity Shareholder in Rights Issue? [SEP] The Rights Entitlement Letter will clearly indicate the number of Rights Equity Shares that the Eligible Equity Shareholder is entitled to. If the Eligible Equity Shareholder applies in the Issue, then such Eligible Equity Shareholder can:(i) apply for its Rights Equity Shares to the full extent of its Rights Entitlements; or(ii) apply for its Rights Equity Shares to the extent of part of its Rights Entitlements (without renouncing theother part); orRead more(iii) apply for Rights Equity Shares to the extent of part of its Rights Entitlements and renounce the other part of its Rights Entitlements; or(iv) apply for its Rights Equity Shares to the full extent of its Rights Entitlements and apply for additional Rights Equity Shares; or(v) renounce its Rights Entitlements in full.
What are the other documents those are dispatched alongwith ALOF under new process? [SEP] The issuer shall dispatch a hard copy of a pre-printed common application form, with the entitlement details to its shareholders, as on the record date, only for those shareholders, whose email ids are not registered in the company’s records. For all other shareholders, whose email ids are available in the company’s records, soft copy of the application form along with the ALOF are sent
What are the Payment mode available for Applicants in rights issue under new process? [SEP] Application for a rights issue shall be made only through ASBA facility irrespective of category and amount.
What is full from of CAF under new process? [SEP]  CAF means Common application form
What is Rights Issue  ? [SEP] Issue of Shares to existing shareholders as on record date is called a Rights Issue. The rights are offered in a ratio to the number of shares or convertible securities held by the shareholder as on the record date.
What is the minimum period for advance notice to stock exchange under Regulation 42(2)? [SEP] The period for advance notice to stock exchange(s) under Regulation 42(2) of LODR Regulations is at least 3 working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date), for the purpose of rights issue.
What is the period during which the Rights Issue has to be kept open? [SEP] As per current regulations, a Rights Issue has to be open for a minimum period of 7 days
What is the procedure for making plain paper application and where can the plain paper application be  submitted? [SEP] An Eligible Equity Shareholder who is eligible to apply under the ASBA process may make an Application tosubscribe to the Issue on plain paper. Click here for Application on Plain paper format. An Eligible Equity Shareholder shall submit the plain paper Application to the Designated Branch of the SCSB for authorising such SCSB to block Application Money in the said bank account maintained with the same SCSB. Applications on plain paper will not be accepted from any address outside India.Read morePlease note that the Eligible Equity Shareholders who are making the Application on plain paper shall not be entitled to renounce their Rights Entitlements and should not utilize the Application Form for any purpose including renunciation even if it is received subsequently.
What is the process to make an application in Rights Issue, who is holding shares in physical form? [SEP] In accordance with the SEBI Rights Issue Circulars, the Eligible Equity Shareholders, who hold Equity Shares in physical form as on Record Date are required to furnish the details of their demat account along with self-attested PAN and details of address proof by way of uploading on Registrar website the records confirming the legal and beneficial ownership of their respective Equity Shares at least two Working Days prior to the Issue Closing Date, desirous of subscribing to Rights Equity Shares after which they can apply through ASBA facility only.Read moreShareholder are required to make the application on or prior to the Issue closing date. Application will be considered only if REs are credited in the demat account furnished.
What is the Record Date in the context of a Rights Issue? [SEP] A record date is reference date for freezing list of shareholders who become eligible to receive corporate benefit like rights entitlement, Bonus shares, dividend etc. . Investors holding shares in demat mode have to ensure that their DP account shows shares held as on that date.
What will happen to the amount if I don't receive an allotment? [SEP] The money for any shares not allotted to you will be credited to your bank account by the RTA after the process is completeIn case shares are not allotted/ partially allotted, the amount blocked shall be unblocked. The amount is deducted only when the shares get allotted. Only the amount for which the shares have been allotted would be deducted from the bank and not the total value of shares that were applied for in an IPO.
Whether any persons who are not existing shareholders of the Issuer Company as on record date, can apply to the Rights Issue? [SEP] Yes. Persons who have bought Rights Entitlements (REs) through On market renunciation / Off market renunciation, are eligible to apply for the shares / other securities offered under Rights Issue, if the REs are available in their demat account. 
Why is demat account details significant for a rights issue applicant? [SEP] The DP-ID + Client ID, is a 16-digit definitive identification of the applicant. It is based on the Demat Account, that allotted shares are credited and refunds, to the bank account linked with the demat account, if any, are processed. A wrong but valid demat account number. can result in shares being credited to a different account and refunds if any, will be credited to that bank account that is linked to the demat account. Thus it is very important that the Demat Account Number is stated correctly in the application form. However in the case of Rights Issues, if the Demat Account is inactive or invalid, the shares are not allotted in Physical format and are kept in the escrow demat account.
Will I be eligible for the rights issue if I purchase shares on the ex-rights date? [SEP] No, you should have purchased the shares before the ex-rights date to be eligible for the rights issue.
Will I be eligible for the rights issue if I sell the shares on the ex-rights date? [SEP] Yes, if you have sold your shares after the ex-rights date then you are entitled to receive the RE. It will be credited to your broker on your behalf and the broker will then credit them to you.
Will physical certificates be issued successful applicants in Rights Issue. [SEP] NO, In accordance with Regulation 77A of the SEBI ICDR Regulations read with the SEBI Rights Issue Circulars, the credit of Rights Entitlements and Allotment of Rights Equity Shares shall be made in dematerialised mode only. 
Can shareholders holding Equity Shares in a physical form renounce their Rights Entitlement? [SEP] In accordance with SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2020/13dated January 22, 2020, the Eligible Equity Shareholders, who hold Equity Shares in physical form as on Record Date shall be required to provide their demat account details to Issuer / Registrar to the Issue for credit of Rights Entitlement not later than two working days prior to issue closing date, such that credit of Rights Entitlement in their demat account takes place at least one day before issue closing date, thereby enabling them to renounce their Rights Entitlements through Off Market Renunciation. For further details with respect to Off Market Renunciation, please refer to the point 24 of this FAQ or refer to the chapter titled “Terms of the Issue’ in the Letter of Offer of the Issuer Company.
What are the general rules regarding renouncement? [SEP] Renouncement can be for part or for full portion of the entitlement In case shareholder renounces full / part of his holding, he becomes ineligible to apply for additional shares.
What does that renouncee signify here? I am not renouncing my rights instead I wish to opt for more rights which I have brought. [SEP] If you’re buying REs from the secondary market, you’re buying it from someone who is renouncing his right. The seller would be the renouncer and the buyer would be renouncee.
What is a renouncement? [SEP] A shareholder can renounce (or forego) the total or part of his/her entitlement in favour of a third party, who then becomes the renouncee.
What is the difference between: “I am a shareholder as on Record Date and undertake to hold REs till issue closing date” and " I am renouncee and hold rights entitlement in valid demat account to hold REs till issue closing date". Which option would I have to choose in that case? [SEP] If you’re buying REs from the secondary market, you’re buying it from someone who is renouncing his right. The seller would be the renouncer and the buyer would be renouncee. If you were an eligible investor and had at least a single share as on the record date, you’ll need to select the shareholder option.
What is the process of on market and off market renunciation? [SEP] Process for On Market & Off Market Renounciation:(a) On Market RenunciationThe Investors may renounce the Rights Entitlements, credited to their respective demat accounts by trading/selling them on the secondary market platform of the Stock Exchanges through a registered stock broker in the same manner as trading / selling Equity Shares of the Company.Read more(b) Off Market RenunciationThe Investors may renounce the Rights Entitlements, credited to their respective demat accounts by way of anoff-market transfer through a depository participant. The Rights Entitlements can be transferred in dematerialised form only.Eligible Equity Shareholders are requested to ensure that renunciation through off market transfer is completed in such a manner that the Rights Entitlements are credited to the demat account of the Renouncees on or prior to the Issue Closing Date.
Whether entitlement can be renounced through plain paper format? [SEP] No. Shareholders cannot renounce their entitlement when applying through plain paper format
At what price can I sell my REs in the market? [SEP] You can sell the REs at a price someone’s willing to pay for it. 
Can Investor submit more than one application form for REs available in a particular demat account? [SEP] Investor can submit more than one application form for REs available in a particular demat account.
Can these REs  be traded on stock exchange platform? Can they be traded off market? [SEP] REs shall be traded on secondary market platform of Stock exchanges, with T+2 rolling settlement, similar to the equity shares. Investors holding REs in dematerialized mode shall be able to renounce their entitlements  by trading on stock exchange platform or off-market transfer. Such trades will be settled by transferring dematerialized REs through depository mechanism, in the same manner as done for all other types of securities.
Do all  REs, get a share or it’ll be like subscribing to IPO (lottery system)? [SEP] If you have X REs, and you apply for X+Y shares. You will get X rights shares since you’re eligible. For the remaining Y, will be allotted on availability of shares on proportionate basis.
How are Rights Entitlements (REs) issued? [SEP] Rights Entitlements (REs) are issued in dematerialised form under a separate ISIN created by the Issuer Company.
How are the details of Renouncee  obtained in absence of physical forms? [SEP] Registrar shall obtain demographic details of all applicants from depositories. Registrar shall obtain details of holders of REs as on issue closing date, from the depositories.
How are the fractional entitlements   treated while crediting  REs? [SEP] In case of fractional entitlements of REs, the fractional part shall be ignored by rounding down the entitlement.
How can NRIs buy the REs, since they cannot pay through RTA? [SEP] If your bank allows ASBA through net banking, you should be able to apply as an NRI.
How do I check my Rights Entitlement [SEP] To check your Rights Entitlement, kindly click here
How shareholders holding shares in physical mode will receive REs?  Also what are the Timeline? [SEP] Physical shareholders shall be required to provide their demat account details to Issuer / Registrar to the Issue for credit of REs not later than two working days prior to the issue closing date, such that credit of REs in their demat account takes place at least one day before the issue closing date.
How the REs for abeyance and IEPF cases will be treated? [SEP] If the demat account of a shareholder is frozen or demat account details are not available, including shares held in unclaimed suspense account or in the account of IEPF Authority, then REs shall be credited in a suspense escrow demat account of the Issuer Company .
How will Shareholders with  ZERO REs be communicated? [SEP] In similar way as for other shareholders, thru intimation letter mentioning "Zero" entitlement, and they are given preference for allotment of one share if they apply for an additional share.   
I am purchasing the REs from the market today, can I apply directly via ASBA? [SEP] Yes, you will be able to apply via ASBA process. 
I don’t have the shares but bought REs, am I still eligible to apply for the rights issue? [SEP] In case you have bought REs but don’t have shares, you’re still eligible for the rights issue. You may apply for the rights shares via net banking ASBA if your bank allows it. If you don’t take any action, and let the REs remain in your Demat  Account, they will lapse after the issue.
Should I unpledge the shares to receive REs and be eligible for the rights issue? [SEP] The REs will be credited to your demat account, you need not unpledge.
What about Rights entitlment for shares that are pledged with broker? [SEP] The broker will receive the REs in their demat account and subsequently be able to make an off-market transfer to the respective client accounts. So, the client will receive the REseven if they do not unpledge their holdings.
What happens to Rights Entitlements (REs) which are neither subscribed nor renounced on or before the Issue Closing Date? [SEP] Rights Entitlements (REs) which are neither subscribed nor renounced on or before the Issue Closing Date shall lapse and shall be extinguished after the Issue Closing Date.
What if someone sells his REs and then applies for the rights issue? How will the RTA do it? [SEP] The RTA will check your demat account details and then check for the REs before allotment.
What is REs and how can a shareholder come to know about the same? [SEP]  The number of Rights Equity Shares that an Eligible Equity Shareholder is entitled to in proportion to his / her shareholding in the Issuer Company as on the Record Date. Shareholder will come to know about the same by checking his depository account with the no of REs credited in the ISIN specifically created for the REs.
What is the process of crediting REs ? [SEP] A separate ISIN shall be obtained by the issuer for credit of REs. Based on the rights entitlement ratio, the issuer shall credit REs in dematerialized mode through corporate action to shareholders holding shares as on record date. The ISIN of REs shall be kept frozen (for debit) in the depository system till the date of opening of the issue
What will happen if Rights Entitlements (REs) are purchased through On market renunciation / Off  market renunciation, and no application is made for subscribing the shares / other securities offered  under Rights Issue? [SEP] If no application is made by the purchaser of REs on or before Issue closing date then such REs will get lapsed and shall be extinguished after the Issue Closing Date. No shares / other securities for such lapsed REs will be credited, even if such REs were purchased from market and purchaser will lose the premium paid to acquire the REs. Persons who have bought Rights Entitlements (REs), shall require to make an application and apply for shares / other securities offered under Rights Issue, if they want to subscribe to the shares / other securities offered under Rights Issue. 
What would be the expiry date and time for Rights Entitlment? [SEP] The REs will lapse on issue closure and should be removed from your demat account once the Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) has processed all the applications (which happens within a few days from issue closure).
When and How the ISIN for REs will be suspended and extinguished? [SEP]  The issuer shall intimate issue closing date to the depositories at least one day before the issue closing date, and the depositories shall suspend the ISIN of REs for transfers, from issue closing date. REs which are neither renounced nor subscribed by the shareholders shall be lapsed after closure of the Rights Issue. Issuer Company shall ensure that REs which are lapsed are extinguished from the depository system once securities are allotted pursuant to Rights Issue. Once allotment is done, the ISIN for REs shall be permanently deactivated in the depository system by the depositories.
When is the REs  credited in the demat account ? [SEP] Issuer shall specify the ISIN for REs while announcing the record date. Based on the rights entitlement ratio, the issuer shall credit REs in dematerialized mode through corporate action to shareholders holding shares as on record date. The ISIN of REs shall be kept frozen (for debit) in the depository system till the date of opening of the issue. 
When will Trading Commence in REs ? [SEP] The issuer shall submit details of total REs credited to the stock exchanges immediately after completing the corporate action for the same and shall obtain requisite trading approval from the stock exchanges. Trading in REs shall commence on the date of opening of the issue and shall be closed at least three working days prior to the closure of rights issue.
Consolidation of Certificates issued in various denominations. [SEP] I have certificates in various denominations, can I have them consolidated into a Single certificate? Yes, you can. For securities held in physical form, please ensure that your folio is KYC compliant.Please send us the original certificates, provided they are under the same folio, along with a request letter. If they are not under the same folio, but have the same order of names, please follow the procedure mentioned for amalgamation of the accounts to facilitate consolidation into a single certificate.Important point to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of change in signature / non-availability of signature / inability to sign due to old age or health problem / difference in name / requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity / address, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures / documents, as applicable.Post processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
How do I Amalgamate different folios/accounts? [SEP] For KYC-compliant folios, if you have more than one folio registered with the same address and identical names which are in the same order, please submit the following:-1. Application Form for Amalgamation duly completed and signed by ALL the holders as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company. This form can be downloaded from our website.2. Original certificates pertaining to all the folios stating the ,Folio into which the holding is to be amalgamated.3. Self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the holder(s).Post processing of the request:A Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.For securities held in electronic form, please contact your depository participant.
I have certificates in various denominations, can I have them consolidated into a Single certificate? [SEP] Yes, you can. For securities held in physical form, please ensure that your folio is KYC compliant.Please send us the original certificates, provided they are under the same folio, alongwith a request letter. If they are not under the same folio, but have the same order of names, please follow the procedure mentioned for amalgamation of the accounts to facilitate consolidation into a single certificate.Important point to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of change in signature / non-availability of signature / inability to sign due to old age or health problem / difference in name / requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity / address, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures / documents, as applicable.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
What is Transpostion? [SEP] Transposition:To interchange the order of names for full holding, for the securities held in the physical form please find the following procedure. Also, ensure that your folio is KYC-compliant. Transposition means that if the physical securities are held in the name of A & B and the securities holder has a demat account in the reverse order i.e. name of B & A - the securities can be dematerialized in the same account, and a new demat account in the name of B and A would not be required.
+2023 Transposition of Securities. [SEP] List of Documents required to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    Form ISR-4.iii)   Transposition Formiv)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
Transposition of Securities. [SEP] For KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:-1. Application Form for Transposition duly completed and signed by ALL the holders as per the specimen signatures recorded with the Company. This form can be downloaded from our website.2. Original certificates for the securities.3. Self-attested copies of the PAN Cards of all the holders.4. Original canceled cheque of the first holder as per the transposed order.5. Duly completed Form ISR-1,Form SH-13 / Form ISR-3 and { Form ISR-4  ]In case you wish to interchange the order of the names for the purpose of dematerialising your securities, the form OA (available with your depository participant) may be duly completed in the desired order of names and submitted to them with the Dematerialisation Request Form and the certificates.Important points to be noted: Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of a change in signature non availability of signature inability to sign due to old age or health problem difference in name requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity/addresss, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures/documents, as applicable will be required to be submitted along with Form ISR-2.?Investors are advised to submit an attested copy of any one of the following documents in case of Mismatch in Name on PAN Card vis a vis Share Certificate / Transposition Form-Valid Passport.Legally recognized Marriage Certificate.Gazette notification regarding Change in Name.Aadhaar Card.Note:Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
-2023 Change of Address. [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor Change or Correction in Address:For KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:A written request for change in address in Form ISR-1, duly signed by the first holder as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company /RTA and supporting documents as indicated herein:Self-attested copy of any 1 of the following documents issued by a Government authority:a. Valid Passport / Registered Lease (notarised) or Sale Agreement of Residence / Driving License / Flat Maintenance bill.b. Utility bills like Telephone Bill (only landline), Electricity bill or Gas bill - Not more than 3 months old.c. Identity card/document with address, issued by any of the following: Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory / Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionsd. For FII / sub-account, Power of Attorney given by FII / sub-account to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address should be taken.e. Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the holder/claimant, provided by the Depository Participant.f. If proof of address is in the name of the spouse, please provide a self-attested copy of the Identity Proof of the holder/claimant.g. Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) If you are claiming your shares or dividend from IEPF then, old address proof is also Mandatory, as per prevailing IEPF norms. Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC. In case you hold shares in demat form, kindly consult your depository participant for effecting the change of address.The hard copy of the above documents is required to be sent to: Focus AddressFor securities held in electronic form, the change in details has to be registered with your depository participant.Note: If your Folio remains to be non-KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process this service request
-2023 Change of Status / Category [SEP] The status of an investor, whether resident or non-resident, is an important detail that is recorded with the RTA. Operationally, there is a difference in the way the investment account of a resident investor and a non-resident investor is managed on factors such as taxation, and paperwork. A change in the status from non-resident investor to resident investor and vice-versa has to be registered with the RTA so that the required modifications can be made. You have to inform the RTA/Issuer Company about the change in residency status along with Identity and address proof. Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC Compliance For KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:A written request letter for change in status from Resident Indian (RI) to Non-Resident Indian (NRI) or Vice Versa, to be submitted with duly completed Form ISR-1, and signed by the first holder as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company along with supporting documents as indicated herein:  For Resident Indian to NRI:Self-attested copies of the following and as stated in form ISR-1:a. Valid Passport b. Details of NRI/NRO Bank Account along with a canceled cheque leaf with the name of the beneficiary printed on it, along with Form ISR-2c. RBI approval from the authorized banker in case you wish to register the NRE account in the Folio.d. Self-certified copy of PAN & Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) e. Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the holder/claimant, provided by the Depository    Participant, which has authorization stamp of DP.f. Overseas Address proof.g. If proof of address is in the name of the spouse, please provide a self-attested copy of the     Identity Proof of the holder/claimant For NRI to Resident Indian:Self-attested copies of the following and as stated in form ISR-1:a..Valid Passportb. Cancelled Cheques of your old NRE/NRO account, and overseas address proofb. Self-certified copy of PAN & Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar)c. Details of new resident Bank Account along with a canceled cheque leaf which has the name of the holder printed on it along with Form ISR-2d. New Utility bills like Telephone Bill (only landline), Electricity bill or Gas bill – e. Identity card/document with address, issued by any of the following: Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory / Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionsf. For FII / sub-account, Power of Attorney given by FII / sub-account to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address should be taken.g. Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the holder/claimant, provided by the Depository Participant.h. If proof of address is in the name of the spouse, please provide a self-attested copy of the Identity Proof of the holder/claimant.Change of category from Minor to Major: Minors can invest through their parents/guardians. The minor is the first and sole account holder in this case and is represented either by a natural guardian (father/mother) or legal guardian (court appointed). A minor represented by a natural guardian attains majority at 18 years of age while those represented by legal guardians attain majority at 21 years of age.Upon Minor becoming Major:The parent/legal guardian needs to apply through a request letter for a change of status of the sole account holder from Minor to Major for all future transactions. Guardian needs to apply for changing the status to Major along with Minor’s signature duly attested by a bank official. The Bank account registration form and KYC of the Minor also need to be submitted along with the application.Documents required:Form ISR-1 duly filled in by the registered holders along with the supporting documents.Self-attested proof of identification (PAN) and proof of address as mentioned in Form ISR-1Original canceled cheque leaf with the name of the holder printed on it, for registering new bank details along with Form ISR-2Birth certificate duly attested by notary.The tax implications will now have to be borne by the sole account holder (Major). Until the child is a minor, all incomes and gains from the child's account are clubbed under the parent/guardian's income and the parent/guardian pays the applicable taxes. In the year the Minor attains Majority, he/she will be treated as a separate individual and will pay taxes for the number of months for which he/she is a Major in that yearImportant points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC. For a change of status in demat mode kindly get in touch with your DP.Note: If your Folio remains to be non-KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process this service request
+2023 Request for Updation of Investor Details - Change in Bank Details [SEP] List of documents required to be submitted: i)     Form ISR-1ii)    Original unsigned cancelled cheque bearing the name of the first registered shareholderiii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-2b.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
+2023 Request for Updation of Investor Details - Change of Address [SEP] List of documents required to be submitted: i) Form ISR-1ii) Self-attested copy of proof of new address (ANY ONE as given below)a) Valid Passport / Registered Lease or Sale Agreement of Residence / Driving License / Flat Maintenance bill.b) Utility bills like Telephone Bill (only landline), Electricity bill or Gas bill - Not more than 3 months old.c) Identity card/document with address, issued by any of the following: Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory / Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionsd) Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the holder/claimant, provided by the Depository Participant.e) Proof of Address in the name of the spouse accompanied by a self-attested copy of the Identity Proof of the spouse.iii) Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a) Form ISR-2b) Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
+2023 Request for Updation of Investor Details - Updation of Contact Details [ Mobile and/or Email id ] [SEP] Updation of Mobile No-(mandatory) and/or Email ID (optional) List of documents required to be submitted:i)     Form ISR-1ii)    Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-2b.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
+2023 Request for Updation of Investor Details - Updation of PAN [SEP] List of documents required to be submitted:i)     Form ISR-1ii)    Original unsigned cancelled cheque bearing the name of the first registered shareholderiii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-2b.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
How can I Change my Specimen Signature? [SEP] Change of Signature:For securities held in physical form, please ensure that your folio is KYC compliant. To register your new signature for securities held in physical form, Form ISR-2 is required to be completed and forwarded to us along with the original canceled cheque leaf bearing the name of the first holder. Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures /documents may be further called as part of KYC.
What is a Specimen Signature? [SEP] Specimen signature definition: a signature to be compared to an original signature in order to verify someone's identity. Specimen Signature Card means a standard form of specimen signature card in use from time to time for the purpose of identifying the signatories
-2023 Change of Signature [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:The security holder can register/update the specimen signature through Form-ISR1  and Form-ISR2 and shall complete either of the two processes mentioned herein; Option A:i. Security holder shall provide the following documents:(a) Original canceled cheque with the name of the security holder printed on it; or(b) Self-attested copy of Bank Passbook/Bank Statement; and ii. Banker’s attestation of the signature of the same bank account as mentioned in (i) above as per Form ISR - 2. Option B:The investor may get his or her signature changed or updated by visiting the office of the RTA in person. In such a case, the investor shall sign before the authorized personnel of the RTA, along with PAN card and;any one additional document mentioned below in the original for verification by the RTA, and submit self-attested copies of the same: 1 Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar)2 Valid Passport.3 Driving license in Smart Card form, Book form, or copy of a digital form, Identity card/document withapplicant’s Photo, issued by any of the following: Central / State Government and its Departments, Statutory /Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionsduly attested by their employer with date and organization stamp.A written request to register your new signature for securities held in physical form, Form ISR-2 is required to be completed and forwarded to us along with the original canceled cheque leaf bearing the name of the first holder, along with a self-certified copy of PAN of the first shareholder.Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures /documents may be further called as part of KYC.
-2023 For Corporates,consequent to change in name of the Company/Trust/Society. [SEP] For KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:For Corporates consequent to change in name of the CompanyA letter duly signed by the authorized signatory/trustee supported by the certified true copy of the documents mentioned below in respect of:Corporate Body- Certificate of Incorporation along with Memorandum and Articles of Association.:The Board Resolution signed by the Company Secretary/Directors on the letter head of the Company empowering the signatories to sign on behalf of the Company along with the specimen signatures of the Authorized Signatories is also to be submitted.Trust- Certificate of Registration along with the Trust Deed.:The Resolution signed by the Secretary/Trustee on the letter head of the Trust empowering the signatories to sign on behalf of the Trust along with the specimen signatures of the Authorized Signatories is also to be submitted.Society- Certificate of Registration along with their Bye Laws/ Rules & Regulations.:The Resolution signed by the Secretary/Trustee on the letter head of the Society empowering the signatories to sign on behalf of the Society along with the specimen signatures of the Authorized Signatories is also to be submitted.Original certificates for the securities.Application Form for Transmission duly completed and signed by the Authorized Signatories. This form can be downloaded from our website.A certified true copy of PAN Card of Corporate Body/ Trust/ Society.In case a change in address is to be noted, the request to this effect should be supported by the certified true copy of Form No.18 / INC 22 filed with the Registrar of Companies for change in the registered office address. Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of change in signature / non-availability of signature/inability to sign due to old age or health problem/difference in name/requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity/address, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures/documents, as applicable.Investors are advised to submit an attested copy of any one of the following documents in case of Mismatch in Name on PAN Card vis a vis Security Certificate / Application Form for Transmission -Valid PassportLegally recognized Marriage CertificateGazette notification regarding Change in NameAadhaar CardFor securities held in electronic form, please contact your depository participant
-2023 For Individuals, consequent to marriage / divorce / attaining majority [SEP] For KYC compliant folio, please submit the following: A. For Individuals, consequent to marriage/divorce / attaining majority. Legible copy of the documents in respect of each name change. Duly attested by Notary Public / Bank Manager / First Class Magistrate.:Attestation by Notary Public / First Class Magistrate should mention their name, full address, registration number and affix their seal, Notarial / Court Fee stamps, as applicable. Attestation by Bank Manager should bear the name, full address and official stamp of the bank. The name on the documents submitted should be the same as that on the securities.Upon-Marriage- Legally recognized Marriage Certificate / Government Gazette.Upon-Divorce- Divorce Decree.Upon-Attaining Majority-Birth Certificate / School Leaving Certificate. Original certificates for the securities. Application Form for Transmission duly completed and signed by the holder(s) whose signature(s) should be attested by his/their Bank Manager under his name, full address and official stamp of the bank. This form can be downloaded from our website. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the holder(s).Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of change in signature / non-availability of signature/inability to sign due to old age or health problem/difference in name/requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity/address, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures/documents, as applicable.Investors are advised to submit an attested copy of any one of the following documents in case of Mismatch in Name on PAN Card vis a vis Security Certificate / Application Form for Transmission -Valid PassportLegally recognized Marriage CertificateGazette notification regarding Change in NameAadhaar CardFor securities held in electronic form, please contact your depository participant
-2023 KYC Registration of Bank details (NECS) [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:The security holder can register/update the Registration of Bank Details (NECS) through a request letter duly signed as per the specimen signature registered with the Company/RTA, containing basic essentials of the shareholder such as Company Name, Folio Num, Name(s) of the Shareholder's and shall complete the following processes:For securities held in physical form where the folio is KYC compliant, please also submit the following to enable the updation of change in bank details:-1. Form ISR-1 duly completed and signed by all the holders as per the specimen signature recorded with the RTA furnishing the bank account details2. Original canceled cheque leaf bearing the name of the first holderORBank-attested legible copy of the first page of the Bank Passbook / Bank Statement:bearing the names of the accountholders, address, same bank account number and type as on the cheque leaf and the full address of the Bank branch and, Bank attested legible copy of the last page of the Bank Passbook / Bank Statement showing the latest transaction which is not more than 3 months old.Banker's attestation of signature as per Form ISR-2.PAN card copy of all shareholders (self-attested).The attestation of the Bank passbook/statement should be by the Bank Manager under his name, employee code, designation, full address and official stamp of the Bank, and date of attestation.The hard copy of the above documents is required to be sent to: Focus AddressFor securities held in electronic form, the bank details have to be registered with your depository participant.
How can I avail of the Electronic Clearing Service facility? [SEP] In case you are holding securities in physical form, you should submit the ECS form duly completed along with a cancelled cheque leaf as advised in the Form-ISR-1 and we shall take due note of the same in our records. As a result, all subsequent dividends will be paid to you through direct credit to your bank account. However, if the shares are in demat, please get in touch with your DP.
How can the non kyc folio be returned to a normal status /state? [SEP] The RTA shall revert the non kyc folios to normal status upon a) receipt of all the aforesaid documents/details such as PAN, Nomination,Postal Address with PIN,Mobile Number.,Bank Account Details.
What are the benefits of availing ECS facility? [SEP] This avoids a lot of hassles like loss/fraudulent encashment of dividend/interest warrant during postal transit. Payment is directly coming to your account through Banking Channels. So, there will be no wait for receipt of dividend/interest warrants and depositing into your bank.
What is Electronic Clearing Service (ECS)? [SEP] Under this system, you can receive your dividend/interest electronically by way of direct credit to your bank account. This avoids a lot of hassles like loss/fraudulent interception of dividend/interest warrants during postal transit. This also expedites payment through credit to your account compared to dividend/interest warrants in physical form. We strongly recommend that if you have not already opted for Electronic Clearing Service (ECS), you may please do so.
+2023 Allotment of Securities  IPO /FPO /Rights /Stocksplit /Bonus [SEP] I.        IPO: For Unblocking of funds – Copy of Bank statement from where bidding is done. II.       Rights Entitlement (RE) – Copy of Client Master List (Sequence of Name(s) in the CML should be the same as appearing in ROM in the physical folio. III.    Bonus: (If shares are in Suspense Escrow Demat Account).i)     Request letterii)    DP Certified Client Master List, the details mentioned in the CML should match with the details recorded with the RTA / Issuer Company.iii)   Form ISR-4.iv)   Form ISR-1v)    Form ISR-2 along with the original cancelled cheque leaf.vi)	Form SH-13  or ISR-3 IV.    Bonus / Stock Split: (If Share Certificates were dispatched earlier which are returned Undelivered)i)     Request letter.ii)    Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios :a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
+2023 Change in Status -Minor to Major  -Resident to NRI and vice versa [SEP] Change in status from Minor to Major:List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Copy of Birth Certificate / School Leaving Certificate /Aadhaar attested by Notaryiii)   Form ISR-4.iv)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3Change in status from Resident to NRI:List of Documents Required:i)     Request letterii)    NRO Undertaking (if status to be recorded as Non-Resident without Repatriation)iii)   RBI approval (if the status is to be recorded as Non-Resident with Repatriation)iv)   Original unsigned cancelled cheque pertaining to NRO / NRE account maintained with Bank in Indiav)    Self-attested copy of new address proofvi)   Form ISR-1vii)  Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-2b.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3Change in status from NRI to Resident:List of Documents Required:i)     Request letterii)    Self-attested copy of new address proofiii)   Form ISR-1iv)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-2b.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3v)	Original unsigned cancelled cheque to record/update Resident Indian bank account details.As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
+2023 Change in the name of the holder [SEP] FOR INDIVIDUALS: Major change in name - Due to Marriage / Divorce:List of Documents to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    Copy of Marriage Certificate / Divorce Decree attested by Notaryiii)   Self-attested Copy of valid passport showing husband’s name or publication in the official gazetteiv)   Any document evidencing the old name i.e. Aadhaar, Valid Passport, Driving License, PAN card with photograph, Identity Card/document with applicant’s photo issued by any Central / State Government and its departments, statutory/regulatory authorities, public sector undertakings, scheduled commercial banks,public financial institutions duly attested by their employer with date and organization stamp.v)    Form ISR-4.vi)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3FOR INDIVIDUALS: Major change in name - on account of reasons Other than Marriage / Divorce:List of Documents to be submitted:i)     Original security certificate ii)    Copy of Government Gazette attested by Notaryiii)   Form ISR-4.iv)   Self-attested copy of any document evidencing the old name i.e. Aadhaar, Valid Passport, Driving License, PAN card with photograph, Identity Card/document with applicant’s photo issued by any Central / State Government and its departments, statutory/regulatory authorities, public sector undertakings, scheduled commercial banks, public financial institutions duly attested by their employer with date and organization stamp.v)    Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3FOR INDIVIDUALS: Minor Mismatch in Name:List of Documents to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    PAN with new nameiii)   Dividend paid statement (where the dividend is paid)iv)   Address proof for current address along with CML duly attested by the DP (in case of mismatch in address)v)    Any document evidencing the old name i.e. Aadhaar, Valid Passport, Driving License, PAN card with photograph, Identity Card/document with applicant’s photo issued by any Central / State Government and its departments, statutory/regulatory authorities, public sector undertakings, scheduled commercial banks, public financial institutions duly attested by their employer with date and organization stampvi)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a)    Form ISR-1b)    Form ISR-2c)    Form SH-13 or ISR-3FOR CORPORATES:List of Documents to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    Certified true copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association and Board Resolution (for Corporate Body) on the Letter Head of the Company along with attested specimen signatures of the authorized signatories. iii)   Certified true copy of Certificate of Registration along with Trust Deed (for Trust) and resolution along with the specimen signatures of the Trustees iv)   Certified true copy of Certificate of Registration along with their Bye Laws/ Rules & Regulations (for Society) and resolution along with specimen signatures of the office bearers.v)    Certified true copy of Form No. 18 / INC 22filed with the Registrar of Companies for change in the registered office address(needed only if the address of the Company has changed)vi)   Form ISR-4.vii)  Form ISR-1As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
+2023 Claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account & Suspense Escrow Demat Account [SEP] Claim From Unclaimed Suspense Account:List of Documents Required:i)     Request letter / Form prescribed by the Company.ii)    Original security certificate(s)iii)   DP Certified Client Master Listiv)   Form ISR-4.v)    Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3Claim from Suspense Escrow Demat Account:List of Documents Required:i)     ?Request letterii)    Original Letter of Confirmationiii)   DP Certified Client Master List, the details mentioned in the CML should match with the details recorded with the RTA / Issuer Company.iv)   Form ISR-4.As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
+2023 Consolidation of folios [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Form ISR-4.iii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
+2023 Consolidation of securities certificate [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Form ISR-4.iii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint
+2023 Endorsement [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Form ISR-4.iii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint
-2023 FORM 15G/H [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceAs per the Finance Act 2020 and applicable Section 194 of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 and amendments thereto tax will be deducted at source, with effect from 1st April 2020, as follows-FOR RESIDENT INDIVIDUALS: at the rate of 10%, if the amount due exceeds Rs.5000.00 (the threshold limit).In case a resident individual is not a tax-payer/not liable for deduction of tax at source, a declaration in Form 15G for claiming tax exemption from dividend or interest paid on debentures is required to be submitted to the RTA/Company. For a resident individual who is of the age of 60 years or more, this declaration is to be made in Form 15H.__Read__more__FOR NON-RESIDENTS: (including Companies other than domestic Companies) at the rate of 20%. To avail of TDS benefit under Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, Non-Resident investors have to submit,- Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) issued by the Tax / Government authority of the country in which the Non-Resident is a resident.- Form 10F containing therein information to be provided under sub-section (5) of section 90 or sub-section (5) of section 90A of the Income-tax Act, 1961, if not so covered in TRC.Important points to be noted:Form 15G/15H, as applicable, must be submitted either in hard copy or scanned copy of the same and should be forwarded to the designated email ids as conveyed by the respective Companies in the tax communications sent to the shareholders.Self-attested copy of the valid PAN Card of the declarant must be sent along with the tax exemption form in Form 15G/15H as applicable. The declaration shall be invalid if PAN is not recorded for the folio/demat account.__Read__more__In case PAN is not available, or PAN is not seeded with Aadhaar, tax deducted at source will be at a higher rate.Name of the Company and Folio No. / DP id Client id must be provided in Form15G/15H.The duly completed forms may please be sent by the 1st of April every year to avoid missing out on book closure/record dates.Forms 15H/15G are valid for only one financial year/or for one cycle of payment and a fresh declaration has to be submitted every year/ every payout as required by the Issuer Company.Forms 15H/15G are also applicable for securities held in demat form.Download a copy of Form 15GDownload a copy of Form 15H
+2023 Intimation of corporate benefits & other corporate communication AGM/ E-Voting /Dividend /Bonus /Stock split [SEP] List of documents requiredSigned Letter from the shareholder quoting the Folio or DPCL and the type of corporate benefits/communication.As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
-2023 Letter of Confirmation [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceSEBI vide it circular bearing ref no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has decided that listed companies shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialized form only (ie by way of Letter of Confirmation, "LOC").The following are the various investor service requests processed by the RTA through LOC: a) Issue of Duplicate Securities certificate.b) Claim from unclaimed suspense account.c) Claim from suspense escrow demat account.d) Renewal / Replacement /Exchange of securities certificate.e) Endorsement.f) Splitting / Sub-Division of Securities Certificate.g) Consolidation of Securities certificates.h) Transmission.i) Transposition.j) Release of unclaimed/outstanding corporate benefits.__Read__more__The securities holder/claimant shall submit duly filled-up Form ISR-4 along with the documents/details specified therein. For items nos. (c to i) above, the RTA / Issuer Companies shall obtain the original securities certificate(s) for processing service requests.The RTA / Issuer Companies shall verify and process the service requests and thereafter issue a ‘Letter of confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities certificate(s), to the securities holder/claimant within 30 days of its receipt of such request after removing objections, if any.a. The ‘Letter of Confirmation’ shall be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its issuance, within which the securities holder/claimant shall make a request to the Depository Participant for dematerializing the said securities.b. The RTA / Issuer Companies shall issue a reminder after the end of 45 days and 90 days from the date of issuance of Letter of Confirmation, informing the securities holder/claimant to submit the demat request as above, in case no such request has been received by the RTA / Issuer Company.c. In case the securities holder/claimant fails to submit the demat request within the aforesaid period, RTA / Issuer Companies shall credit the securities to the Suspense Escrow Demat Account of the Company (SEDA). Investor shall make the request within 120 days from the date of the letter of confirmation to Depository Participant (DP) for dematerializing the said securities along with the original letter of confirmation or a copy of the email with e –sign and/or digital signature, as the case may be. The DP on receipt of the foregoing documents shall generate demat request on the basis of the letter of confirmation and forward the same to the issuer company / RTA for processing the demat request.
+2023 Name Deletion [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Copy of Death Certificate attested by Notary / Gazetted Officeriii)   Transmission Formiv)   Form ISR-4.v)    Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
-2023 Non Receipt of Consideration Amount [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your AAdhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC CompliancePlease note that you are requested to submit the hard copy of a request letter duly signed by the registered security holder along with a self-attested copy of ID proof (PAN), Address proof and Original canceled Cheque Leaf bearing the name of the first holder of securities, at our office address.Request for non-receipt of consideration amount will be accepted, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account has a positive balance it should be KYC compliant.
+2023 Non Receipt of Dividend /Interest /Redemption Amount [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Request letterii)    Client Master List duly attested by Depository Participant mentioning complete bank details Or Cancelled Cheque Leaf of claimant name printed on Cheque.iii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
-2023 Non Receipt of Dividend/Interest/Redemption warrant. [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceShareholders should write to the Company’s STA, furnishing the particulars of the dividend not received, and quoting the folio number / DPID and Client ID particulars (in the case of dematerialized shares). On the expiry of the validity period, No request for non-receipt of the amount will be considered against those shares wherein a ‘stop transfer indicator’ has been instituted either by virtue of a complaint or by law, unless the procedure for releasing the same has been completed.Request for non-receipt of warrant(s) will be considered, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account is KYC compliant, then the said request letter shall be considered for remittance of the unpaid amount to your bank account.
-2023 Non Receipt of Fractional Entitlement [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC CompliancePlease note that you are requested to submit the hard copy of a request letter duly signed by the registered security holder along with a self-attested copy of ID proof (PAN), Address proof and Original canceled Cheque Leaf bearing the name of the first holder of securities, at our office address. The duly signed letter by all the holders should mention the Issuer's Company Name, Folio/DPCL, Fractional entitlement & PAN.Request for non-receipt of fractional entitlement will be accepted, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account is KYC compliant.
-2023 Non Receipt of  Redemption Amount [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your AAdhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC CompliancePlease note that you are requested to submit the hard copy of a request letter duly signed by the registered security holder along with a self-attested copy of ID proof (PAN), Address proof and Original canceled Cheque Leaf bearing the name of the first holder of securities, at our office address. The duly signed letter by all the holders should mention the Issuer's Company Name, Folio/DPCL, Fractional entitlement & PAN.Request for non-receipt of redemption amount will be accepted, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account is KYC compliant.
-2023 Non Receipt of refund warrant [SEP] Request for non-receipt of refund warrant will be considered, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details), then the said request letter shall be considered for remittance of the unpaid amount to your bank account.The duly signed letter by all the holders should mention the Issuer's Company Name, Application Number, Applied Quantity, Allotted Quantity, & PAN.A self-certified copy of PAN and canceled cheque leaf bearing the first name of the investor is desired.
-2023 Non Receipt of Stickers for change in the name of the company [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceWith regard to this request, we request you to kindly write and scan a request letter duly signed by the registered shareholder along with a copy of the self-attested copy of PAN.Upon receipt of the same, we will dispatch the stickers, which you can then stick on the face of the certificate and dematerialize the same. Please do mention the company name and your folio number in all your correspondence with us. 
+2023 Replacement / Renewal / Exchange of securities certificate [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Form ISR-4.iii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
-2023 Request for Annual Report [SEP] The Annual Reports of the company are now available in downloadable formats, both on the STOCK EXCHANGE website as well as the Company’s website. Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please comply with:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant.Self-attested copy of any 1 of the following documents issued by a Government authority:a. Client Master List (CML) of your demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, which has to be attested by your DP.b. Valid Passport / Registered Lease (notarised) or Sale Agreement of Residence/Driving License/Flat Maintenance Bill*c. Utility bills like telephone bills (only landline), electricity bills or gas bills (not more than 3 months old)d. Identity Card with photo/document with address, issued by Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory/Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionse. For FII/subaccount, Power of Attorney given by FII/subaccount to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address.f. Proof of address in the name of the spouse accompanied by a self-attested copy of Identity Proof of the spouse.g. Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC-compliant folios or if you hold securities in electronic/demat form and you require a copy Annual Report for the current financial year, kindly send a request letter duly signed by the first holder as per the specimen signature recorded with the RTA/Company/Depository, along with a self-certified copy of PAN, quoting the Company Name, Folio Number/DPCL and the Financial Year for which the Annual Report is required. Request for Annual Report shall be entertained for the present and preceding one financial year only.Note: If your Folio remains to be non-KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process this service request
-2023 Revalidation / Replacement of Warrant [SEP] As per the SEBI circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/73 dated 20th April 2018, all dividend/interest payments pertaining to revalidation of dividend/interest warrant/Non-receipt of dividend/interest warrant, etc. would be executed via electronic bank transfer only (RTGS/NEFT).Please also note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceIn case your account is KYC compliant, you may send the outdated instrument to us, to facilitate the remittance of the payment.Please note that you are requested to submit the hard copy of a request letter duly signed by the registered security holder along with a self-attested copy of ID proof (PAN), Address proof and Original canceled Cheque Leaf bearing the name of the first holder of securities, at our office address.Focus AddressRequest for revalidation or replacement of warrants will be accepted, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account is KYC compliant.
+2023 Sub-division / Splitting of securities certificate [SEP] List of Documents Required:i)     Original security certificateii)    Form ISR-4.iii)   Additional documents for non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request / complaint.
+2023 Tax Exemption [SEP] Senior Citizens (Above 60 years of age)List of Documents Required:a.    Form 15H duly completed Resident Individuals List of Documents Required:a)    Form 15G duly completedAs part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
-2023 Un-Claimed Dividend Amount [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceRequest for Un-claimed amounts will be considered, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account is KYC compliant if it has a positive balance, then the said request letter shall be considered for remittance of the un-claimed amount to your bank account.
-2023 Un-Claimed Suspense Account [SEP] Unclaimed SecuritiesAll unclaimed securities pertaining to public issues and ‘other issues’ (like bonus, split, consolidation etc.) of listed companies are kept in Suspense Account. In other issues, securities are allotted in physical or in demat mode as per the existing shareholding. In addition, the security certificates which are returned undelivered to the issuer company /RTA shall also be transferred to Un-claimed Suspense Account by following the procedure laid down in Regulation 39(4) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. If these securities are unclaimed: a) unclaimed physical securities are dematerialized and kept in the Unclaimed Suspense Accountb) unclaimed demat securities are kept in the Demat Suspense Account  All corporate benefits accruing on unclaimed securities are also credited to these aforesaid suspense accounts and their voting rights remain frozen. Investors can claim securities from these accounts by filing Form ISR-4 along with an application to the listed company/ RTA. SEBI vide circular dated January 25, 2022, has mandated that securities that have been transferred to an unclaimed suspense account shall be claimed only in demat mode Securities lying in the Demat Suspense Account can be claimed only in demat mode and the investor has to provide a demat account for the same.  Request for Unclaimed amounts will be considered, provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details). The said request letter shall be considered for remittance of the un-claimed shares if the documents submitted are clear in all respects.
-2023 What documents are required to be submitted for claiming securities from Suspense Escrow Demat Account? [SEP] Securities which have been moved to Suspense Escrow Demat Account may be claimed by the securities holder / claimant on submission of below mentioned documents to RTA : a) Request letterb) Original Letter of Confirmationc) Duly filled in and signed Form ISR-4d) DP Certified Client Master List, the details mentioned in the CML should match with the details recorded with the RTA 
-2023 What happens in case the Securities holder / Claimant fails to submit the demat request within 120 days from the date of issuance of Letter of Confirmation [SEP] In case the securitiesholder/claimant fails to submit the demat request within 120 days from the date of issuance of letter of confirmation (LOC), RTA shall credit the securities to the Suspense Escrow Demat Account of the company.
-2023 What is Suspense Escrow Demat Account (SEDA)? [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceSEBI vide it circular bearing ref no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has decided that listed companies shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialized form only (ie by way of Letter of Confirmation, "LOC").The following are the various investor service requests processed by the RTA through LOC: a) Issue of Duplicate Securities certificate.b) Claim from unclaimed suspense account.c) Claim from suspense escrow demat account.d) Renewal / Replacement /Exchange of securities certificate.e) Endorsement.f) Splitting / Sub-Division of Securities Certificate.g) Consolidation of Securities certificates.h) Transmission.i) Transposition.j) Release of unclaimed/outstanding corporate benefits.__Read__more__The securities holder/claimant shall submit duly filled-up Form ISR-4 along with the documents/details specified therein. For items nos. (c to i) above, the RTA / Issuer Companies shall obtain the original securities certificate(s) for processing service requests.The RTA / Issuer Companies shall verify and process the service requests and thereafter issue a ‘Letter of confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities certificate(s), to the securities holder/claimant within 30 days of its receipt of such request after removing objections, if any.__Read__more__a. The ‘Letter of Confirmation’ shall be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its issuance, within which the securities holder/claimant shall make a request to the Depository Participant for dematerializing the said securities.b. The RTA / Issuer Companies shall issue a reminder after the end of 45 days and 90 days from the date of issuance of Letter of Confirmation, informing the securities holder/claimant to submit the demat request as above, in case no such request has been received by the RTA / Issuer Company.c. In case the securities holder/claimant fails to submit the demat request within the aforesaid period, RTA / Issuer Companies shall credit the securities to the Suspense Escrow Demat Account of the Company (SEDA). __Read__more__Investor shall make the request within 120 days from the date of the letter of confirmation to Depository Participant (DP) for dematerializing the said securities along with the original letter of confirmation or a copy of the email with e –sign and/or digital signature, as the case may be. The DP on receipt of the foregoing documents shall generate demat request on the basis of the letter of confirmation and forward the same to the issuer company / RTA for processing the demat request.
Any service request [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated the furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement) and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. For Physical Folios who are not KYC compliant, please submit the following:For Non-compliant KYC folios, the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website under Downloads -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein.__Read__more__Completing to a full KYC is easy:Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.In case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal under Investor Services -> KYC ComplianceKindly fill and submit Form ISR-1, and Form ISR-4 duly signed by the holder(s) as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company along with supporting documents as mentioned below:Self-attested copy of any 1 of the following documents issued by a Government authority:a. Client Master List (CML) of your demat account, provided by the Depository Participantb. Valid Passport / Registered Lease or Sale Agreement of Residence/Driving License/Flat Maintenance Bill*c. Utility bills like telephone bills (only landline), electricity bills or gas bills (not more than 3 months old)d. Identity Card with photo/document with address, issued by Central/State Government and its Departments, Statutory/Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutionse. For FII/subaccount, Power of Attorney given by FII/subaccount to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostilled or consularised) that gives the registered address.f. Proof of address in the name of the spouse*g. Unique Identification Number (UID) (Aadhaar) * Kindly provide an additional self-attested copy with the date as Identity Proof of the holder/claimant.Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.Note: If your Folio is not KYC Compliant we shall not be able to process any service request.
Fedbank Financial Services -IPO Allotment status [SEP] Please click on https://linkintime.co.in/IPO/public-issues.html
Flair Writing Industries -IPO Allotment status [SEP] Please click on https://linkintime.co.in/IPO/public-issues.html
Gandhar Oil Refinery -IPO Allotment status [SEP] Please click on https://linkintime.co.in/IPO/public-issues.html
How do I obtain a duplicate Tax Deduction Certificate (TDC)? [SEP] Please write, giving: Details of the TDC that you require, the name of the Company in which you hold the securities, your full name, address, and your folio number/DP_CL, which will be available from the share/debenture certificate(s) or Client Master List (CML), dividend/interest warrant(s) payment date(s) and financial year for any queries not covered herein.Focus AddressEmail-R-T
How to register for SWAYAM? [SEP] 1. Visit us at https://swayam.linkintime.co.in/# .2. Click on the "Sign-Up" button and follow the step-by-step instructions.3. Ensure you have access to your email and mobile for OTP verification.4.	Optionally, you may upload a copy of your PAN image at the time of registration.5. Upon successful registration, you will receive a confirmation email of account activation.5. Access the ‘SWAYAM’ portal using your credentials and start benefiting from the hosts of services.
How to Un-Block or allow pop-ups ? [SEP] By default, Google Chrome blocks pop-ups from automatically showing up on your screen. When a pop-up is blocked, the address bar will be marked Pop-up blocked . You can also decide to allow pop-ups.If you still get pop-ups after disabling them:You may have previously subscribed to receive notifications from a site. You can block notifications if you don’t want any communications from a site to show up on your screen. Learn how to manage your notifications.Your computer or phone may be infected by malware. Learn how to get rid of malware.Change your default pop-ups & redirects settingsOn your computer, open Chrome.At the top right, click More   Settings.Click Privacy and security  Site Settings  Pop-ups and redirects.Choose the option that you want as your default setting.Manage pop-ups & redirects for a specific siteNot all pop-ups are ads or spam. Some legitimate websites display web content in pop-up windows.Allow pop-ups and redirects from a siteBlock pop-ups and redirects from a site
I am not a taxpayer, am I required to file a declaration for non-deduction of tax at source for my dividend / interest amount? [SEP] As per the Finance Act 2020 and applicable Section 194 of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 and amendments thereto tax will be deducted at source, with effect from 1st April, 2020, as follows-FOR RESIDENT INDIVIDUALS: at the rate of 10%, if the amount due exceeds Rs.5000.00 (the threshold limit).In case a resident individual is not a tax-payer/not liable for deduction of tax at source, a declaration in Form 15G for claiming tax exemption from dividend or interest paid on debentures is required to be submitted to TCPL. For a resident individual who is of the age of 60 years or more, this declaration is to be made in Form 15H.FOR NON-RESIDENTS: (including Companies other than domestic Companies) at the rate of 20%. To avail TDS benefit under Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, Non Resident investors to submit,- Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) issued by the Tax / Government authority of the country in which the Non-Resident is a resident of.- Form 10F containing therein information to be provided under sub-section (5) of section 90 or sub-section (5) of section 90A of the Income-tax Act, 1961, if not so covered in TRC.Important points to be noted:Form 15G/15H, as applicable, must be submitted either in hard copy or scanned copy of the same should be forwarded to the designated email ids as conveyed by the respective Companies in the tax communications sent to the shareholders. .Self-attested copy of valid PAN Card of the declarant must be sent along with the tax exemption form in Form 15G/15H as applicable. Declaration shall be invalid if PAN is not recorded for the folio/demat account.In case PAN is not available, tax deducted at source will be at higher rate.Name of the Company and Folio No. / DP id Client id must be provided in the Form15G/15H.The duly completed forms may please be sent by the 1st of April every year to avoid missing out on book closure/record dates.Forms15H/15G are valid for only one financial year and fresh declaration has to be submitted every year.
If the holding is in joint names and either of the holders is deceased, what is the procedure for Name deletion? [SEP] For securities held in physical form, please submit the following:-1. Name Deletion form duly completed and signed by the surviving holder(s) as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company.2. Original death certificate or copy of death certificate:, attested by the survivor subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) or copy of death certificate, duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer. Attestation by Notary Public / Gazetted Officer should mention their name, full address, registration number and affix their seal, Notarial Fee stamps, as applicable.3. Self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the surviving holder(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Duly completed Form ISR-1, Form SH-13 / Form ISR-3 , and Form ISR-4For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant.Note:Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
I have an old warrant which I forgot to encash and is now time-barred? Can I still obtain the amount due to me? [SEP] Yes, you can. Provided the amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details)and the account is KYC compliant.In case your account is KYC compliant, you may send the outdated instrument to us, to facilitate remittance of the payment.
Indian Renewable Energy -IPO Allotment status [SEP] Please click on https://linkintime.co.in/IPO/public-issues.html
Is Transfer of Securities allowed? [SEP] Please note that as per SEBI circular dated 27th March 2019, w.e.f. April 01, 2019 fresh requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held in dematerialized form with a depository.You are, therefore, requested to coordinate with the transferor(s) to convert the physical shares into demat mode and subsequently arrange to transfer the shares into your Demat account.For unlisted private limited companies, the transfer can be effected for which you need to :1. Submit duly executed Form SH-4.2. Submit original certificates for the securities3. Attach a self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the transferor(s) as well as of the transferee(s)4. Frank/affix stamp duty on the Form SH-4 @ 0.25% of the market value or the consideration amount (whichever is higher). Calculation of market value of the securities must be as on the execution date mentioned on Form SH-45. In the case of debentures/bonds, where the market value is not available, stamp duty is to be calculated on the face value of the securities being transferred.
Non Receipt of Fractional Entitlement / Proceeds from sale of Fractional securities submitted during offer [SEP] A request letter for non-receipt of Fractional Entitlement or non-receipt of amount from fractional securities tendered to the company provided the fractional entitlement amount is found to be outstanding and not transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government or the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Refer XII for details) and the account is KYC compliant, then the said request letter shall be considered for remittance of the unpaid amount to your bank account.The duly signed letter by all the holders should mention the Issuer's Company Name, Application Number, or Folio/DPCL, Fractional entitlement & PAN.A self-certified copy of PAN and canceled cheque leaf bearing the first name of the investor is desired.
On Tax Deduction [SEP] I am not a taxpayer, am I required to file a declaration for non-deduction of tax at source for my dividend / interest amount?As per the Finance Act 2020 and applicable Section 194 of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 and amendments thereto tax will be deducted at source, with effect from 1st April, 2020, as follows-FOR RESIDENT INDIVIDUALS: at the rate of 10%, if the amount due exceeds Rs.5000.00 (the threshold limit).In case a resident individual is not a tax-payer/not liable for deduction of tax at source, a declaration in Form 15G for claiming tax exemption from dividend or interest paid on debentures is required to be submitted to TCPL. For a resident individual who is of the age of 60 years or more, this declaration is to be made in Form 15H.FOR NON-RESIDENTS (including Companies other than domestic Companies):at the rate of 20%. To avail TDS benefit under Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, Non Resident investors to submit, Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) issued by the Tax / Government authority of the country in which the Non-Resident is a resident of.Form 10F containing therein information to be provided under sub-section (5) of section 90 or sub-section (5) of section 90A of the Income-tax Act, 1961, if not so covered in TRC.Important points to be noted:Form 15G/15H, as applicable, must be submitted either in hard copy or scanned copy of the same should be forwarded to the designated email ids as conveyed by the respective Companies in the tax communications sent to the shareholders. .Self-attested copy of valid PAN Card of the declarant must be sent along with the tax exemption form in Form 15G/15H as applicable. Declaration shall be invalid if PAN is not recorded for the folio/demat account.In case PAN is not available, tax deducted at source will be at higher rate.Name of the Company and Folio No. / DP id Client id must be provided in the Form15G/15H.The duly completed forms may please be sent by the 1st of April every year to avoid missing out on book closure/record dates.Forms15H/15G are valid for only one financial year and fresh declaration has to be submitted every year.Forms 15H/15G are applicable for securities held in demat mode & Physical mode.
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd -Buyback 2023 [SEP] Please click on https://web.linkintime.co.in/Offer/Default.aspx
TATA technologies -IPO Allotment status [SEP] Please click on https://linkintime.co.in/IPO/public-issues.html
Transfer of Securities [SEP] Can I transfer physical securities to my name?Please note that as per SEBI circular dated 27th March 2019, w.e.f. April 01, 2019 fresh requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held in dematerialized form with a depository.You are, therefore, requested to coordinate with the transferor(s) to convert the physical shares into dematmode and subsequently arrange to transfer the shares into your demat account.In the case of securities of unlisted private limited companies, transfer can be effected for which you need to :1. Submit duly executed Form SH-4.2. Submit original certificates for the securities3. Attach self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the transferor(s) as well as of the transferee(s)4. Frank / affix stamp duty on the Form SH-4 @ 0.25% of the market value or the consideration amount (whichever is higher). Calculation of market value of the securities must be as on the execution date mentioned on Form SH- 4In the case of debentures/bonds, where the market value is not available, stamp duty is to be calculated on the face value of the securities being transferred.For securities held in electronic form, please contact your depository participant.
What are some of the functions of SEBI? [SEP] SEBI has the following functions;1. Protective Function2. Regulatory Function3. Development FunctionThe following functions will be discussed in detailProtective Function: The protective function implies the role that SEBI plays in protecting the investor interest and also that of other financial participants. The protective function includes the following activities.a. Prohibits insider trading: Insider trading is the act of buying or selling securities by the insiders of a company, which includes the directors, employees, and promoters. To prevent such trading SEBI has barred the companies to purchase their own shares from the secondary market.b. Check price rigging: Price rigging is the act of causing unnatural fluctuations in the price of securities by either increasing or decreasing the market price of the stocks which leads to unexpected losses for the investors. SEBI maintains strict watch in order to prevent such malpractices.c. Promoting fair practices: SEBI promotes fair trade practices and works towards prohibiting fraudulent activities related to the trading of securities.d. Financial education provider: SEBI educates the investors by conducting online and offline sessions that provide information related to market insights and also on money management.Regulatory Function:Regulatory functions involve the establishment of rules and regulations for the financial intermediaries along with corporates that helps in the efficient management of the market.The following are some of the regulatory functions.a. SEBI has defined the rules and regulations and formed guidelines and codes of conduct that should be followed by the corporates as well as the financial intermediaries.b. Regulating the process of taking over a company.c. Conduct inquiries and audits of stock exchanges.d. Regulates the working of stock brokers, and merchant brokers.Developmental Function:Developmental function refers to the steps taken by SEBI in order to provide investors with knowledge of the trading and market function. The following activities are included as part of the developmental function.1. Training of intermediaries who are a part of the security market.2. Introduction of trading through electronic means or through the Internet with the help of registered stock brokers.3. By making the underwriting an optional system in order to reduce the cost of the issue.
What are the contact nos of Swayam? [SEP] Contact no is 022-49186174 during business hours or email us at swayam@linkintime.co.inDrop in your feedback at feedback-swayam@linkintime.co.in
What are the Objectives of SEBI? [SEP] Following are some of the objectives of the SEBI1. Investor Protection: This is one of the most important objectives of setting up SEBI. It involves protecting the interests of investors by providing guidance and ensuring that the investment is safe.2. Preventing the fraudulent practices and malpractices which are related to trading and regulation of the activities of the stock exchange3. To develop a code of conduct for financial intermediaries such as underwriters, brokers, etc.4. To maintain a balance between statutory regulations and self-regulation
What are the office timings? [SEP] For Investor Servicing: Monday - Friday 10:00 AM – 4:00 PM, excluding Bank Holidays.
What is a Sub-Division? [SEP] When the face value of the share of a Company is split into smaller denominations, the share is said to be subdivided viz. a share of Rs.100/- each may be subdivided into 10 shares of Rs.10/- each.
What is Common and Simplified Norms for processing investors service request by RTAs? [SEP] As an ongoing measure to enhance the ease of doing business for investors in the securities market, the following norms will be applicable. RTAs to provide an electronic interface for processing investor's queries, complaints, and service requests. Investors holding physical securities are mandatorily required to furnish PAN, Nomination, Postal Address with PIN, Mobile Number, and Bank Account Details. Linking of PAN and Aadhaar by all holders of physical securities is mandatory. In the absence of any one of the above in a physical folio, the same will be frozen.
What is Investor Charter? [SEP] In order to facilitate investor awareness about various activities which an investor deals with while availing the services provided by Registrar & Share Transfer Agent, SEBI has developed an Investor Charter for RTA's. This Charter is a brief document containing details of service provided to investors, their rights, dos and don'ts, responsibilities, investor grievance handling mechanism and timelines thereof, etc., at one single place, in a lucid language, for ease of reference
What is R & T [SEP] R&T means Registrar and Share Transfer Agents.
What is SEBI? [SEP] SEBI stands for Securities and Exchange Board of India. It is a statutory regulatory body that was established by the Government of India in 1992 for protecting the interests of investors investing in securities along with regulating the securities market. SEBI also regulates how the stock Registrar & Share Transfer Agents and other intermediaries function. It also supervises the function of stock market and mutual funds.
What is SWAYAM? [SEP] ‘SWAYAM’, is a Self-Service Portal for Investors, developed by Link Intime India Pvt Ltd, offering a wide range of services and features at your fingertips.Click on https://swayam.linkintime.co.in
What is the purpose of SEBI? [SEP] The purpose for which SEBI was set up was to provide an environment that paves the way for mobilization and allocation of resources. It provides practices, frameworks, and infrastructure to meet the growing demand.It meets the needs of the following groups:1. Issuer: For issuers, SEBI provides a marketplace that can be utilised for raising funds.2. Investors: It provides protection and supply of accurate information that is maintained on a regular basis.3. Intermediaries: It provides a competitive market for intermediaries by arranging for proper infrastructure.
What is the structure of SEBI? [SEP] SEBI board comprises nine members. The Board consists of the following members.One Chairman of the board who is appointed by the Central Government.One Board member who is appointed by the Central Bank, that is, the RBI.Two Board members who are hailing from the Union Ministry of Finance.Five Board members who are elected by the Central Government.
What service Swayam offers? [SEP]  Here are a few key features and benefits of using the ‘SWAYAM’ Investor Self-Service Portal: Account Statements: Generate Consolidated Account Statements for securities held against your PAN.Transaction History: Get Details of Payment status such as Dividend/Interest/Redemption Amounts.Securities Overview:a. Track your securities at the PAN level.b. View your entire portfolio serviced by Link Intime & its subsidiaries (through a single login).c. Obtain Company-wise summary of securities held.d. Fetch Valuation of Securities as per the closing rates at BSE/NSE of the previous trading day.e. View/Download/Print details of securities held in multiple accounts.4. Generate & Track service requests through this portal.
Who is IDIA? [SEP] IDIA is a chatbot that helps users find the nearest answers to their queries.
Why are Lines Busy? [SEP] There is unusual heavy call traffic. All our customer care executives are busy attending to calls. Your call is important to us and we appreciate your patience and understanding. Kindly do not disconnect the line.
Why should I keep securities in joint names? [SEP]  It is advisable to register securities in joint names in order to facilitate Succession. 
Loss of Securities Certificate, and Procedures to claim the same. [SEP] Immediately intimate the Company about the loss of securities certificate by means of a signed letter as per the specimen signatures. For folio(s) which are not KYC compliant, registered holder(s) should ensure to do the KYC Compliance first, by filling up Form ISR-1, ISR-2, Form SH-13/ ISR-3 as per SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.1. [ Form ISR-4 ]  duly filled in all respect:. as per SEBI Circular dated 25th JanuarythJanuary, 2022. SEBI has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in Demat mode only, pursuant to the investor service request. 2.Affidavit (Form-A): A Notarized Affidavit from the registered holder(s) of securities: made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim to the securities.  3. Indemnity Bond (Form-B): A Notarized Indemnity Bond from the registered holder(s):of securities to be made non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in prescribed format indemnifying the Share Transfer Agent / Listed entity.(a)   Self-attested identification and address proof of Witnesses to Indemnity, as in (a) and (b) below: a) PAN Card as proof of identity. b) Aadhaar card, Valid Passport, Utility bills like Telephone Bill, Electricity bills & Gas Bill (not more than three months old). Any one document, as proof of address is to be submitted. 4. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the holder(s) / Registered Holder(s) /claimant(s), (if the holder(s) /claimant(s) have a demat account, provided by the Depository Participant,) in the order of names as per Form-ISR4. If the value of securities as on date of submission of application exceeds Five lakhs#, we request you to additionally comply with items (5 to 7) as stated under:#. The value shall be ascertained on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission in the application.5. Original newspaper clippings, where the loss of securities has been published in a widely circulated newspaper as per draft of advertisement format 6. F.I.R / e-F.I.R /Acknowledged Police Complaint/ Court injunction order/copy of plaint:(where the suit filed has been accepted by the Court and Suit No. has been given), reporting the loss of securities, containing details of the securities, folio number, distinctive number range, and certificate numbers. 7. For overseas securities holders instead of submitting F.I.R / e-F.I.R /Acknowledged Police Complaint:,shall be permitted to provide self-declaration of the security Certificates lost/ misplaced/stolen, duly notarised / Apostilled / attested by the Indian Consulate /Embassy in their country of residence, along with self-attested copies of Valid passport and overseas address proof. Notes: Affidavit/Indemnity Bond to be purchased in the name of holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed and signed before the Notary Public/ Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same.The witness should be other than a family member. The signature(s) of the holder(s) / witnesses on the indemnity must be affirmed before the Notary Public/Magistrate.The name and full address of the attesting authority for the Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, notarial /court fee stamps and mention the registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization of Affidavit and IndemnityPost-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
+2023 Duplicate Issue [SEP] Where the market value of lost securities is below Rs.5 lakhs as of the date of submission of complete documentation (The applicant shall quantify the value of the securities on the basis of the closing price of such securities at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of such submission in the application) List of documents required to be submitted:i)     Form ISR-4.ii)    Affidavit (Form A)iii)   Indemnity (Form B)iv)   Additional documents for Non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 Where the market value of lost shares is above Rs.5 lakhs as of the date of submission of complete documentation.List of documents required to be submitted:i)     Form ISR-4.ii)    Copy of FIR including e-FIR/ Police Complaint/court injunction (An overseas securities holder in lieu of these shall be permitted to provide self-declaration of the security certificates lost/misplaced/stolen duly notarized / apostilled / attested by the Indian Consulate / Embassy in their country of residence along with self-attested copies of valid passport and overseas address proof.iii)   Advertisement in a widely circulated newspaper. iv)   Affidavit (Form A)v)    Indemnity (Form B)vi)   Additional documents for Non-KYC Compliant Folios:a.    Form ISR-1b.    Form ISR-2c.    Form SH-13 or ISR-3 As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
-2023 Loss of Securities Certificate, and Procedures for duplicate. [SEP] Immediately intimate the RTA/Company about the loss of the securities certificate by means of a signed letter, quoting the Name of the Company, Folio Number, and Shares/Debentures lost as per the specimen signatures recorded with the Company/RTA.Please also note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC-compliant Folios kindly comply with the forms as stated herein:The request letter duly signed as per the specimen signature registered with the company/RTA, containing basic essentials of the shareholder such as Company Name, Folio Num, Name(s) of the Shareholder, Number of securities, and details of the lost certificates and shall complete the following processes:__Read__more__1. [ Form ISR-4 ]  duly filled in all respect:As per SEBI Circular dated 25th January 2022. SEBI has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in Demat mode only, pursuant to the investor service request. 2. Affidavit (Form-A): A Notarized Affidavit from the registered holder(s) of securities: made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim to the securities.  3. Indemnity Bond (Form-B): A Notarized Indemnity Bond from the registered holder(s):of securities to be made non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in prescribed format indemnifying the Share Transfer Agent / Listed entity.(a)   Self-attested identification and address proof of Witnesses to Indemnity, as in (a) and (b) below: a) PAN Card as proof of identity. b) Aadhaar card, Valid Passport, Utility bills like Telephone Bills, Electricity bills & Gas Bills (not more than three months old). Any one document, as proof of address is to be submitted. 4. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the holder(s) / Registered Holder(s) /claimant(s), (if the holder(s) /claimant(s) have a demat account, provided by the Depository Participant,) in the order of names as per Form-ISR4. If the value of securities as on the date of submission of the application exceeds Five lakhs#, we request you to additionally comply with items (5 to 7) as stated under#. The value shall be ascertained on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission of the application.5. Original newspaper clippings, where the loss of securities has been published in a widely circulated newspaper as per draft of advertisement format 6. F.I.R / e-F.I.R /Acknowledged Police Complaint/ Court injunction order/copy of plaint:(where the suit filed has been accepted by the Court and Suit No. has been given), reporting the loss of securities, containing details of the securities, folio number, distinctive number range, and certificate numbers. 7. For overseas securities holders instead of submitting F.I.R / e-F.I.R /Acknowledged Police Complaint:,shall be permitted to provide self-declaration of the security Certificates lost/ misplaced/stolen, duly notarised / Apostilled / attested by the Indian Consulate /Embassy in their country of residence, along with self-attested copies of Valid passport and overseas address proof. The securities holder(s) shall submit a self-certified copy of the PAN holder(s)Notes: Affidavit/Indemnity Bond to be purchased in the name of the holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed and signed before the Notary Public/ Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same.The witness should be other than a family member. The signature(s) of the holder(s) / witnesses on the indemnity must be affirmed before the Notary Public/Magistrate. Self-attested copy of PAN of the witness should be attached with the request. The name and full address of the attesting authority for the Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, and notarial /court fee stamps and mention the registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization of the Affidavit and IndemnityPost-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Service Request - Form ISR 4 [SEP] Service of Investor Request for Loss of Securities as per [ Form ISR-4 ]  duly filled in all respect as per SEBI Circular dated 25th January, 2022. SEBI has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in Demat mode only, pursuant to the investor service request.
Loss of Securities for value more than 5 Lakhs. [SEP] Immediately intimate the Company about the loss of the securities certificate by means of a signed letter as per the specimen signatures. For folio(s) which are not KYC compliant, registered holder(s) should ensure to do the KYC Compliance first, by filling up Form ISR-1, ISR-2, Form SH-13/ ISR-3 as per SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.1. [ Form ISR-4 ] duly filled in all respect:. as per SEBI Circular dated 25th January, 2022. SEBI has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in Demat mode only, pursuant to the investor service request. 2.Affidavit (Form-A): A Notarized Affidavit from the registered holder(s) of securities: made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim to the securities.  3. Indemnity Bond (Form-B): A Notarized Indemnity Bond from the registered holder(s):of securities to be made non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in prescribed format indemnifying the Share Transfer Agent / Listed entity.(a)   Self-attested identification and address proof of Witnesses to Indemnity, as in (a) and (b) below: a) PAN Card as proof of identity. b) Aadhaar card, Valid Passport, Utility bills like Telephone Bill, Electricity bills & Gas Bill (not more than three months old). Any one document, as proof of address is to be submitted. 4.  Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the holder(s) / Registered Holder(s) /claimant(s), (if the holder(s) /claimant(s) have a demat account, provided by the Depository Participant,) in the order of names as per Form-ISR4. If the value of securities as of the date of submission of the application exceeds Five lakhs#, we request you to additionally comply with items (5 to 7) as stated under#. The value shall be ascertained on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission of the application.5. Original newspaper clippings, where the loss of securities has been published in a widely circulated newspaper as per draft of advertisement format 6. F.I.R / e-F.I.R /Acknowledged Police Complaint/ Court injunction order/copy of plaint:(where the suit filed has been accepted by the Court and Suit No. has been given), reporting the loss of securities, containing details of the securities, folio number, distinctive number range, and certificate numbers. 7. For overseas securities holders instead of submitting F.I.R / e-F.I.R /Acknowledged Police Complaint:,shall be permitted to provide self-declaration of the security Certificates lost/ misplaced/stolen, duly notarised / Apostilled / attested by the Indian Consulate /Embassy in their country of residence, along with self-attested copies of Valid passport and overseas address proof. Notes: Affidavit/Indemnity Bond to be purchased in the name of holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed and signed before the Notary Public/ Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same.The witness should be other than a family member. The signature(s) of the holder(s) / witnesses on the indemnity must be affirmed before the Notary Public/Magistrate.The name and full address of the attesting authority for the Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, notarial /court fee stamps and mention the registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization of the Affidavit and Indemnity.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Loss of Securities for value not exceeding 5 Lakhs. [SEP] Immediately intimate the Company about the loss of the securities certificate by means of a signed letter as per the specimen signatures. For folio(s) which are not KYC compliant, registered holder(s) should ensure to do the KYC Compliance first, by filling up Form ISR-1, ISR-2, Form SH-13/ ISR-3 as per SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023.1. [ Form ISR-4 SEBI ]  duly filled in all respect:As per SEBI Circular dated 25th Januaryth, 2022. SEBI has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in Demat mode only, pursuant to the investor service request. 2.Affidavit (Form-A): A Notarized Affidavit from the registered holder(s) of securities: made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim to the securities.  3. Indemnity Bond (Form-B): A Notarized Indemnity Bond from the registered holder(s):of securities to be made non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in prescribed format indemnifying the Share Transfer Agent / Listed entity.(a)   Self-attested identification and address proof of Witnesses to Indemnity, as in (a) and (b) below: a) PAN Card as proof of identity. b) Aadhaar card, Valid Passport, Utility bills like Telephone Bill, Electricity bills & Gas Bill (not more than three months old). Any one document, as proof of address is to be submitted. 4.  Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the holder(s) / Registered Holder(s) /claimant(s), (if the holder(s) /claimant(s) have a demat account, provided by the Depository Participant,) in the order of names as per Form-ISR4. If the value of securities as on the date of submission of application is less than Five lakhs#, then the investor is not required to comply with News Paper Advertisement, FIR, or Police Complaint.#. The value shall be ascertained on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission in the application.Notes: Affidavit/Indemnity Bond to be purchased in the name of holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed and signed before the Notary Public/ Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same.The witness should be other than a family member. The signature(s) of the holder(s) / witnesses on the indemnity must be affirmed before the Notary Public/Magistrate.The name and full address of the attesting authority for the Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, notarial /court fee stamps and mention the registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization of Affidavit and Indemnity.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
What is an Affidavit on account of loss of certificate? [SEP] An affidavit of loss is a document declaring the loss of security usually through theft or destruction. The affidavit contains all the details regarding the loss, such as the owner's name and any information pertaining to the security. That information may include a serial number or the security as on date of issue. After the statement has been made, a letter of indemnity can be issued requesting the replacement of the security.
View / Download Affidavit [SEP] Please Select the type of form required
What is Indemnity in terms of loss of securities? [SEP] The concept of indemnity has to do with holding someone harmless, and a letter of indemnity outlines the specific measures that will be used to hold a party harmless.A letter of indemnity (LOI) is a contractual document that guarantees certain provisions will be met between two parties. Such letters are traditionally drafted by third-party institutions like banks or insurance companies, which agree to pay financial restitution to one of the parties, should the other party fail to live up to its obligations.In other words, the chief function of an LOI is to ensure that Party A won't ultimately suffer any losses if Party B falls delinquent.
What is Securities Certificates? [SEP] A company issues the securities certificate to assure that a person is the registered owner of the company securities (such as equity shares, preference shares, bonds, debentures, etc..) from the date the certificate is issued to that person. The securities certificate issued by a company is the prima facie evidence that a person is the owner of the companyâ€™s securities. The misplacement and loss of securities certificates will affect the holder(s) financially, as there will be no proof of their ownership. Thus, the company will issue a duplicate securities certificate if the original is misplaced or lost.A company will issue a duplicate securities certificate if the original certificate: Is proved to be lost or destroyed. Has been mutilated, defaced, or torn and is surrendered to the company.As per SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has mandated that the shares that are issued pursuant to investor service request shall henceforth be issued in demat mode only.
What are the steps to follow when a Securities Certificate(s) is Lost or Misplaced? [SEP] The holder(s) and a company must follow certain steps when a securities certificate of a registered holder(s) is/are lost or misplaced, as provided below.In case Folio is not KYC Compliant, kindly ensure to do KYC Compliance first.The steps to be taken by holders when the certificate is lost or misplaced are:The holder must immediately inform the company about the lost or misplaced certificate(s).The communication of the information of the securities certificate being lost or misplaced can be done by posting a signed letter to the companyâ€™s address or by emailing to the company/RTA.The signature must tally with the specimen signature as recorded.The holder must provide the details of the lost or misplaced securities certificate, like name, folio number, address and certificate number.   The steps to be taken by a company when the share certificate is lost or misplaced are:When a company receives the information of the lost or misplaced certificate, it must freeze the said folio for at least 30 days to prevent any illegal proceeding of fraudulent transfer.After completing the required procedure and establishing the holderâ€™s identity, the company should guide the holder for the issuance of a duplicate securities certificate.As per SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has mandated that the shares that are issued pursuant to investor service request shall henceforth be issued in demat mode only.
What is Loss Securities Certificates? [SEP] A share certificate is a document that indicates the ownership of company shares by its shareholder/beholder. It acts as prima facie evidence of the title of the individual holding the shares. When the beholder of the share certificate loses or misplaces the original document, the company will issue a duplicate share certificate.When a person loses his/her share certificate, it can lead to a substantial financial loss to the shareholder and the company in which he/she held shares. Thus, to avoid any unnecessary loss to the company and its shareholders, the Companies Act, 2013, provides for the issue of duplicate share certificates under Section 46 and Rule 6(2)(a) to (c) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014. As per SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has mandated that the shares that are issued pursuant to investor service request shall henceforth be issued in demat mode only.
Nomination of Securities [SEP] For Securities held in Physical form and which are KYC Compliant:You can nominate/change of nomination by filling out the nomination form. For KYC-compliant folio, you may nominate person(s) by completing Form No.SH-13 and registering the same with us. Kindly download Form SH-13A nomination can be changed at any time by filling out the same form. By availing of the nomination facility, the nominees are entitled to receive shares outstanding in the name of the deceased holder(s). However, the following categories of investors cannot nominate:HUF accountsPower of attorney holdersAccounts in the name of society, trust body corporate.
Can I cancel or nominate someone else in place of existing nominee [SEP] Yes, you can. For securities held in physical form, please ensure that your folio is KYC compliant.For KYC-compliant folio, you may vary or cancel the nomination and nominate a new person(s) in place of the existing nominee(s) by completing Form No. SH-14 and registering the same with us. Kindly download Form SH-14
If I do not want to avail nomination facility, what should I do? [SEP] For securities held in physical form, please ensure that your folio is KYC compliant.For KYC compliant folio, you may complete Form ISR-3 for opting out of nomination and registering the same with us. Kindly download Form ISR-3
-2023 Cancellation/ Variation of Nominee [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor KYC compliant folio, please submit the following:A nomination once made can be modified by submitting a fresh nomination form. The investor will have to fill outForm SH -14 and submit it to the RTA for effecting the changes.Focus Address A nomination once made can be canceled by submitting a Form SH -14 along with Form ISR-3 declaration for opt-out to the RTA for effecting the changes. To opt-out Investor will have to submit Form ISR 3 to the RTA to opt out of the nomination in the folio. A written request for cancellation of nomination in Form ISR-1, duly signed by the first holder as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company.You are requested to provide a self-certified copy of PAN along with your request.Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.Non-individuals including Society, Trust, Body Corporate, Partnership Firms, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, and holders of Power of Attorney cannot nominate.For KYC-compliant folio, you may vary or cancel the nomination and nominate a new person(s) in place of the existing nominee(s) by completing Form No. SH-14 and registering the same with us. Kindly download Form SH-14Points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.
-2023 Opt out of Nomination [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-Person Verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus AddressIn case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC ComplianceFor the KYC-compliant folio, and where the Nomination is already registered, we request you to first cancel the Nomination through Form SH-14 and complete Form ISR-3 for opting out of the nomination.Kindly register with us the above-stated forms. In case you do not wish to nominate any one kindly submit the Form ISR-3 through a request letter duly signed as per the specimen signature(s) registered with the company/RTA, containing basic essentials of the shareholder(s) such as Company Name, Folio Num, Name(s) of the Shareholder's and shall complete the following processes:Kindly fill out Form ISR-3 to register your request to OPT-OUT of nomination for the concerned Folio-num in the said Issuer Company where you hold securities.You are requested to submit a self-certified copy of PAN along with your request.Important points to be noted:The identity and address proof should be legible and in the name of the first registered account holder.Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.Non-individuals including Society, Trust, Body Corporate, Partnership Firms, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, and holders of Power of Attorney cannot use OPT-OUT, since nomination cannot be registered for such types of accounts.
Cancellation of Nominee [SEP] For securities held in physical form, please ensure that your folio is KYC compliant. For more details on KYC compliance, please refer to the relevant Forms for registering/changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website at https://www.linkintime.co.in -> KYC-FormatsIn order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein.For KYC-compliant folio, you may vary or cancel the nomination and nominate a new person(s) in place of the existing nominee(s) by completing Form No. SH-14 and registering the same with us. Kindly download Form SH-14Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of any differences observed, additional procedures/documents may be further called as part of KYC.
Form ISR 3 Opt-Out of Nomination. [SEP] ISR-3 form is meant to help you to:a)   Opt-out of existing nomination orb)   Opt for No Nomination by Holders of Physical Securities in Listed Companies.Without nomination, your Folio will be treated as Non-KYC Complaint. Use of ISR-3 will be applied for the entire securities against the said folio.
Transmission of Securities in the name of Registered Nominee. [SEP] For securities held in physical form, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request [ Form ISR-5 ] duly signed by all the Nominee(s) as per SEBI circular dated 18th May, 2022.2.	Original death certificate OR: a copy of death certificate attested by the nominee subject to verification with the original OR copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3.	Original security certificate(s).4.	Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the nominee(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.5.	Original canceled cheque leaf:which is issued in the name of the first Nominee OR the latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first nominee, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6.	Nomination Form SH-13 or Form ISR-3:Declaration for opting out of Nomination signed by all the nominee(s)/Guardian; if the nominee is a minor.7. Client Master List (CML):of the Demat Account of the Nominee(s), if the Nominee(s) have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8. Copy of Birth Certificate (in case nominee is a minor).9.	KYC of the Guardian (for nominee being a minor or of unsound mind).Note: Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
What is Form SH-13? [SEP] SH-13 form is meant to help you make a nomination if you are an individual applying/ holding securities on your own behalf, singly or jointly. The nomination will be registered only when it is complete in all respects including the signature of1.  All registered holder(s) (as per specimen lodged with the Company) /RTA and2. The complete details of the nominee and witness being furnished. The Nominee will be entitled to all the rights in the securities upon demise of all holders in the folio.Non-individuals including Society, Trust, Body Corporate, Partnership Firm, Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, holder of Power of Attorney cannot nominate.
What is Nomination? [SEP] Nomination is a facility that enables a securities holder(s) to nominate an individual, who can claim the securities, post the demise of the original securities holder(s).
Points to remember while doing Nomination. [SEP] â€¢  Mention the full name, age, address, and your relationship with the nominee.â€¢  Do not write the nomination in favor of "wife" and "children" as a class. Give their specific names and particulars existing at that moment.â€¢  If the nominee is a minor, appoint a person who is a major as an appointee giving his full name, age, address, and relationship to the nominee.It is advisable to take out some time to regularise â€œnominationâ€ in all your securities held, whether in demat or physical segment. You will render your close ones a huge help when they would need it the most.
What is the term "Nomination of Securities" ? [SEP] For Securities held in Physical form and which are KYC Compliant:You can nominate/change of nomination by filling out the nomination form. For KYC-compliant folio, you may nominate person(s) by completing Form No.SH-13 and registering the same with us. Kindly download Form SH-13A nomination can be changed at any time by filling out the same form. By availing of the nomination facility, the nominees are entitled to receive shares outstanding in the name of the deceased holder(s). However, the following categories of investors cannot nominate:HUF accountsPower of attorney holdersAccounts in the name of society, trust body corporate.
Who is a Nominee? [SEP] A Nominee is a person whom you can list in your investment as the person(s) who can receive the proceeds of your account in case of your unexpected death.The nominee can be anyone you deem to be your first relative - your parents, spouse, kids, siblings etc. Some investments also allow you to have multiple nominees where you can assign percentages of your money to each one of them. If you donâ€™t specify percentages, it is shared equally.
Why nominate someone? [SEP] In case of the unfortunate event of oneâ€™s demise, oneâ€™s a family/ near ones go through a very painful and difficult time of coping with the loss. To add to this, whether we like it or not, financial security and means are necessary for the surviving partner or your close ones. All companies have standard and simpler processes for settling death claims, where nomination is clearly mentioned in the account or folio. Download Nomination Form.However, in absence of nomination, the process of settling a death claim may require a host of documents, including death, succession certificates, a will, or a court order. Although it may sound simple on paper, it ends up being a long-drawn process in real life and it is not a situation in which you would want to put your loved ones at a time, which would anyways be an already emotionally painful situation for them.
-2023 Claim of Shares/Securities and/or Dividend/Interest from IEPF Authority. [SEP] In terms of Section 124 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 7 of the IEPF Rules, you may claim both the unclaimed/unpaid amounts and the shares/securities from IEPF Authority.You may submit the required documents for verification to the Nodal Officer/RTA of the Company (retain the copies of the same with you along with the original share certificate(s)) for claiming the shares/dividends from the IEPF Authority. On verification of the documents, if the same is found complete in all respects, the Nodal Officer/RTA of the Company will issue an Entitlement Letter.You may, thereafter, lodge the Claim with the IEPF Authority by filing an application on the MCA website at www.iepf.gov.in. Thereafter, you are required to forward to the Nodal Officer/RTA of the Company the hard copy of the above-mentioned Form IEPF-5 duly signed (as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company)along with the requisite original documentsThe Rules and the Application Form (Form IEPF-5), as prescribed by the MCA for claiming the shares/dividend are available on the website of MCA at www.iepf.gov.in.Please also note that:1. No claim shall lie against the Company in respect of unclaimed dividend amount and shares transferred to IEPF Authority pursuant to the said Rules.2. Post transfer of securities to the IEPF Authority, all subsequent corporate benefits accruing on them shall also be credited in favor of the demat account of the IEPF Authority and you can claim the benefits from them.Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of a change in signature / non-availability of signature/inability to sign due to old age or health problem/difference in name/requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. an Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity/address, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures/documents, as applicable.Investors are advised to submit an attested copy of any one of the following documents in case of a mismatch in the name on their PAN Card, Aadhaar Card, supporting documents vis a vis Security Certificate, or Company Records.Valid PassportLegally recognized Marriage CertificateGazette notification regarding Change in NameAadhaar Card__Read__more__Please access the IEPF-5 webform for filing the claim for a refund. Read the instructions provided on the website/instruction kit along with the web form carefully before filling out the form.New users click hereExisting Users click hereContinue to file your online IEPF-5 claim-formView / Download Sample IEPF-5 Claim FormView / Download Sample Pre-Filled IEPF-5View / Download Sample (SRN) AcknowledgmentView / Download Indemnity Bond for IEPF-5__Read__more__Additional Documents required by IEPF:In case the Joint holder is deceased, a Notarized Copy of the Death certificate. Additional Documents in Case of Address Mismatch:In case the claimant’s address as per Company’s record is not matching with any of the documents such as Aadhaar Card, Passport, Copy of Bank Passbook, CML, etc., the following documents will be required:a) An affidavit (duly notarized) explaining the above deviation, on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as prescribed under Stamp Act according to State; andb) Proof of Old as well as New address, duly self-attested by the claimants.Additional Documents in Case of Name Mismatch:In case the claimant’s name as per Company’s record is not matching with any of the documents such as PAN Card, Adhaar Card, Passport, canceled cheque leaf, CML, etc., the following documents will be required:a) An affidavit (duly notarized) explaining the above deviation, on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as prescribed under Stamp Act according to State; andb) Marriage certificate, Gazette notification etc., if applicableAdditional Documents in Case of Transmission of shares (IEPF):In case the Claimant is the legal heir/representative of the Deceased Person, the Transmission Form along with the following documents:i. Where the nomination is registered:Duly signed transmission request form by the nominee.Original or copy of death certificate(s) duly attested.Self-attested copy of PAN card.Original share certificate(s) (Physical Mode) / Copy of transaction statement duly certified by Depository Participant (DEMAT Mode).Any other Government ID proof of the nominee.ii. Where the nomination is not registered:[in addition to the documents specified at Para (i)Affidavit from all the legal heirs made on appropriate non-judicial stamp paper - to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities.Note: In case the legal heir(s) or claimant(s) is named in the succession certificate or probate of will or Letter of Administration, an Affidavit from such legal heir(s) or claimant(s) alone.For the value of securities up to Rs. 5,00,000 (Rs. 5 lakh only) per issuer company as on the date of application, one or more of the following documents:(a) Succession certificate or probate of will or letter of administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of the Indian Succession Act, 1925.(b) In the absence of the documents mentioned at (a) above,(i) No objection certificate from all legal heir(s) executed by all the legal heirs of the deceased holder not objecting to such transmission (or) copy of Family Settlement Deed duly notarized and (ii) An Indemnity bond made on appropriate non-judicial stamp paper — indemnifying the STA or Issuer Company.For the value of securities more than Rs. 5,00,000 (Rs. 5 lakhs only) per issuer company as on the date of application:(a) Succession certificate or probate of will or will or letter of administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of the Indian Succession Act, 1925.Additional Documents in case Original share certificates are lost/misplaced/not available for claim from IEPF:In case of loss of original share certificate:a) Notarized copy of FIR / Police Compliant containing information of security holder, holding details, folio number and distinctive numbers of shares.b) Surety Affidavit of value equal to the market value of shares as on date of execution along with identity proof like PAN Card of sureties duly attested by Notary.c) Indemnity bond by security holder on a non-judicial stamp paper of requisite value duly attested by Notary, by the person in whose name the original share certificates are being issued that he has not sold / disposed-off the involved shares or acted in any manner by which any interest of third party would have been created.Note: The claimant will publish the requisite advertisement for the loss of share certificate whose market value as of date is more than 5,00,000 (Five Lakhs), in at least one English-language national daily newspaper having nationwide circulation and in one regional language daily newspaper published in the place of the registered office of the companyWhat are the documentary requirement by IEPF authorities, in case the claimant is a legal heir?:(i) In the case of a legal heir - the claimant is required to register transmission with the company by providing requisite documents as per SEBI Guidelines. According to SEBI Guidelines for registering transmission, the company may require a copy of the death certificate, Affidavit from legal heirs, Indemnity Bond, Succession Certificate or probate of will or letter of administration, etc. for share with a market value greater than 5 lacs, NOC from other legal heirs and relinquishment deed in favor of claimant etc;(ii) In case of the death of any of the holders in the joint holding of securities, but not covered in the family hierarchy – the claimant is required to get the name of the deceased holder of security deleted from the register of the members/other records, if any, in the company immediately after the death of a joint security holder before filing claim application. The claimant is also required to obtain NOC from other holders of securities, if any, and submit the same along with the claim application. SEBI Guidelines may also be seen before filing a claim application. The company is required to issue an entitlement letter under rule 7(9) of IEPF Rules 2016 in favor of the claimant and send it along with a copy of the documents submitted by the claimant with its verification report.For any further help, the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500What are the documents required to be submitted with IEPF -5?:1. Printout of duly filled claim form with claimant signature and in case of joint holders, the form should be signed by all the joint holders along with annexures submitted with the form.2. Copy of acknowledgment generated on online submission of IEPF – 5 e-form, bearing a unique serial number (SRN),3. Indemnity Bond (original) with claimant signature( auto-generated ) after uploading Form IEPF-5.4. Proof of entitlement, (Original share certificate /Interest warrant /Application No. etc.),. Original matured deposit /Original Debenture certificate [ in case of securities held in physical form] or copy of transaction statement in case of securities held in Demat Form.]5. Self-attested Copy of Aadhaar Card and Client Master List.6. Proof of entitlement (original share certificate /Interest warrant Application No. etc.)7. Cancelled Original Cheque leaf,8. Self-attested Copy of Passport, OCI, and PIO card in case of Other Nationalities and NRI duly apostilized.9. In the event of the death of any joint holder, a Copy of the Death certificate is to be attached.10. In cases of transmission, loss of original shares, mismatch in name and address etc., relevant documents as mentioned in Schedule II, III and IV respectively.11. Any other document relevant to prove the entitlement of the claimant.For any further help, the IEPF helpline can also be contacted. Public Relations Officers Phone No: 011-23441777. Helpdesk - 0124-4832500
-2023 How do I claim unclaimed / unpaid amounts and shares that are transferred to IEPF? [SEP] In terms of Section 124 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 7 of the IEPF Rules, you may claim both the unclaimed/unpaid amounts and the shares from IEPF AuthorityYou may submit the required documents for verification to the Nodal Officer/RTA of the Company (retain the copies of the same with you along with the original share certificate(s)) for claiming the shares/dividends from the IEPF Authority. On verification of the documents, if the same is found complete in all respects, the Nodal Officer/RTA of the Company will issue an Entitlement Letter.You may, thereafter, lodge the Claim with the IEPF Authority by filing an application on the MCA website at www.iepf.gov.in. Thereafter, you are required to forward to the Nodal Officer/RTA of the Company the hard copy of the above-mentioned Form IEPF-5 duly signed (as per the specimen signature recorded with the Company)along with the requisite original documentsThe Rules and the Application Form (Form IEPF-5), as prescribed by the MCA for claiming the shares/dividend are available on the website of MCA at www.iepf.gov.in.Please also note that:1. No claim shall lie against the Company in respect of unclaimed dividend amount and shares transferred to IEPF Authority pursuant to the said Rules.2. Post transfer of securities to the IEPF Authority, all subsequent corporate benefits accruing on them shall also be credited in favor of the demat account of IEPF Authority and you can claim the benefits from them.Important points to be noted:Investors are informed that after verification of the documents submitted and in case of a change in signature / non-availability of signature/inability to sign due to old age or health problem/difference in name/requirements related to enhanced due diligence, additional documents will be called for, viz. an Affidavit, Government Gazette, proof of identity/address, PAN and bank details, and such other additional procedures/documents, as applicable.Investors are advised to submit an attested copy of any one of the following documents in case of a mismatch in the name on PAN Card, Aadhaar Card, supporting documents vis a vis Security Certificate, or Company Records.Valid PassportLegally recognized Marriage CertificateGazette notification regarding Change in NameAadhaar Card
When are securities such as shares,debentures transferred to the Investor Education Protection Fund of the Central Government? [SEP] As per provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, it is prescribed that all shares shall be transferred to IEPF in respect of which unpaid or unclaimed dividend is transferred as provided under Section 124 (5) and 124 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules prescribed therein.Further, please note that the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India has notified the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Second Amendment Rules, 2017 (IEPF Rules). According to the said IEPF Rules, Companies are required to transfer such shares for which dividend has not been claimed for 7 consecutive years, to the demat account of IEPF Authority.__Read__more__In terms of the provision of the Companies Act, 2013 and IEPF Rules, the Company has transferred such shares by canceling the original share certificate registered in the names of the shareholders and issuing duplicate share certificate in lieu of the original share certificate and transmitting the same to the demat account of IEPF Authority.Thereafter, the original share certificate would automatically stand canceled and deemed non-negotiable or not tradeable and there would be no holding under the registered Folio of the holder. Please note that no claim shall lie against the Company in respect of unclaimed dividend amount and shares transferred to IEPF pursuant to the IEPF Rules.
When is Unclaimed / Unpaid Amounts transferred to General Revenue Account / Investor Education Protection Fund (IEPF) of the Central Government.? [SEP] As per Section 205(A) of the Companies Act, all unclaimed and unpaid dividend maintained in the separate dividend account of the Company was required to be transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government after the prescribed period of approximately 3 years. Any claim post transfer to the Central Government should be made to the Registrar of Companies in the prescribed form.However as per the Amendment vide the Companies (Amendment) Ordinance, 1998, Section 205 (A) of the Companies Act 1956, this clause has been amended with effect from 31st October, 1998. Accordingly, all unclaimed Dividend / Interest / Principal / Maturity amounts on Deposits/ Debentures after expiry of 7 years from the date they were due for payment shall be transferred to Investor Education and Protection Fund. ("THE FUND").
Transmission of Securities [SEP] Transmission of securities means transferring ownership of securities to the nominee/successors / Legal heirs in the event of death of the sole / all joint holders or to surviving joint holders in the event of death of one/more joint holders. The word 'transmission' means devolution of title to shares otherwise than by transfer, for example, devolution by death, succession, inheritance, bankruptcy, marriage, etc. Transmission of shares is done by forwarding the necessary documents (eg. a notarized copy of the death certificate) to the RTA/company.SEBI vide it's Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/65, dated May 18, 2022, has simplified the procedure and standardized the formats and documents for transmission of securities.Transmission of Securities held jointly:In case the deceased was one of the joint holders, then the surviving holders have to request the Company vied a form called transmission application form along with a copy of notarised death certificate to transmit the securities lying in the account of the deceased to the account of the surviving holders. The Transmission request form must be supported with Form ISR-5 along with the supporting documents as stated in Form ISR-5. You may download the Procedure for Name Deletion or Transmission of securities to the surviving holder(s)Transmission of Securities in the Name(s) of Registered Nominee(s):Where the deceased holder(s) have already registered nomination, the Nominee(s) are requested to claim such securities by submitting Form ISR-5 along with the supporting documents as stated in Form ISR-5. You may download the Procedure for Claim of Securities by Nominee(s)Transmission of Securities in the Name(s) of Legal Heir(s)/Claimant(s):Where the deceased holder(s) have not registered nomination, the Legal Heir(s) / Claimant(s) are requested to claim such securities by submitting Form ISR-5 along with the supporting documents as stated in Form ISR-5. You may download the Procedure for Claim of Securities by Legal Heir(s)/Claimant(s).The Company shall issue a Letter of Credit upon successful execution of the documents attached.
-2023 Name Deletion and Transmission of Securities [SEP] Please note, SEBI vide their Circulars have mandated:Furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN code, Email address(optional), Mobile No., Bank Account details, Specimen Signature & Nomination by holders of physical securities (collectively, called KYC requirement), and that “From January 1, 2022, RTAs shall not process any service requests or complaints received from the holder(s)/claimant(s), till PAN, KYC, and Nomination documents/details are received. Click on the link to download a copy of the SEBI Circular dated 16th March 2023. For Physical Folios who are Not KYC compliant, please comply with:The relevant Forms for registering /changing KYC details and Nomination, viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, and SH-14 as well as the SEBI circulars are available on our website -> KYC-Formats In order to make the folio KYC compliant, the holder is required to submit the duly completed KYC Forms along with supporting documents as indicated therein. Kindly also ensure that your Aadhaar is seeded with PAN, for the folio to be KYC Compliant. Completing to a full KYC is easy. Simply drop into our office location on any Business Day for (IPV):In-person verification with our officer as per your convenience, with the set of original documents and self-attested copies of documents to be submitted.Alternatively, you may also courier the self-attested copies with the date, and the courier the complete set of KYC documents to our office address.Focus Address In case you wish to comply with the KYC, using E-sign, do mail us from your registered e-mail id only. Alternatively, the e-signed documents are also accepted at our web portal. Please click the link -> KYC Compliance__Read__more__If the holding is in joint names and either of the holders is deceased, what is the procedure for Name deletion?:For a KYC-compliant folio, please submit the following:-1. Application Form for Name Deletion duly completed and signed by the surviving holder(s) as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company.2. Original death certificate or copy of death certificate, attested by the survivor subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) or copy of death certificate, duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer. Attestation by Notary Public / Gazetted Officer should mention their name, full address, and registration number and affix their seal, and Notarial Fee stamps, as applicable.3. Self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the surviving holder(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Duly completed Form ISR-1,Form SH-13 / Form ISR-3 and [Form ISR-4 ]Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant.__Read__more__I am the registered nominee in respect of securities where the sole holder / all holders is/are deceased. What is the procedure for the transmission of securities?:For securities held in physical form, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request ( Form ISR-5 ] duly signed by all the Nominee(s) as per SEBI circular dated 18th May, 2022.2. Original death certificate OR a copy of death certificate attested by the nominee subject to verification with the original OR copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Original security certificate(s).4. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the nominee(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first Nominee OR the latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first nominee, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the nominee(s)/Guardian; if the nominee is a minor.7. Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the Nominee(s), if the Nominee(s) have a demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8. Copy of Birth Certificate (in case the nominee is a minor).9. KYC of the Guardian (for nominee being a minor or of unsound mind).Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant.__Read__more__I am the legal heir/executor in respect of securities where the sole / all holder(s) is/are deceased, and the nomination is not registered with the Company. What is the procedure for the transmission of securities?-For securities held in physical form and in the sole/joint name of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : [ Form ISR-5 ] duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR a copy of death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or the latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML) of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8. Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s) made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities whose value exceeds Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:# The value shall be ascertained: on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission.9. Copy of any of the following required documents for transmission as may be applicable:duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original or duly attested by anotary public or by a gazetted officer:a. Succession Certificate ORb. Probate of Will ORc. Will, along with a notarized indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E ORd. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree ORf. Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with;Notarized Indemnity Bond: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. The bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s) as per the format provided in Annexure E; andNo Objection from all the Non-Claimants (remaining legal heirs):, stating that they have relinquished their rights to claim for transmission of securities, duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer as per the format specified and provided in Annexure F__Read__more__10. Where the value of securities does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) per listed entity as of the date of submission of application for transmission and the documents as mentioned in point 9 above are not available, the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission in the format provided in Annexure F; ORCopy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office;andii)Notarized Indemnity Bond made: on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. The bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s) as per the format provided in Annexure EIMPORTANT POINTS:1) Documents, as mentioned in items no 1 to 8, are mandatory for the Transmission of securities irrespective of the value of securities, whereas items no 9 or 10 as applicable with the value of securities.2) Legal Heir(s) / Claimant(s) shall submit Affidavit & Indemnity Bond in Non-Judicial Stamp Paper (NJS) of appropriate value. You may use the E-Stamping facility or Franking of Documents if the facility is available in your location.3) Where the registered office of the Issuer Company is situated in the state of Maharashtra, the Indemnity Bond is to be submitted on NJS of Rs.500/- and Affidavit on NJS of Rs.100/-.4) For securities standing in joint names and where all the holders are deceased, legal documents (viz. Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Court Decree or Legal Heirship Certificate) for the holder, who is deceased last, is required to be submitted.5) Attestation by Notary Public / Gazetted Officer should mention their name, full address, and registration number and affix their seal, and Notarial Fee stamps, as applicable.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant.
+2023 Transmission of Securities -Demise of sole / all holders, where Nominee is NOT Registered. [SEP] Where the Market value of securities is below Rs.5 lakhs as of the date of submission of complete documentation.List of Documents required to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    Copy of the Death Certificate attested by a Notary public or by a gazetted officer.iii)   Notarized Affidavit executed by all Legal Heirs (Annexure D)iv)   Notarized Indemnity bond (Annexure E)v)    No Objection Certificate from all legal heir(s) or copy of family settlement deed executed by all the legal heirs duly attested by a Notary Public or by a gazetted officer (Annexure F)vi)   Form ISR-1 (applicable for non-KYC compliant folio)vii)  Form ISR-2viii) Original Cancelled Cheque leaf or Client Master List copy duly attested by Depository Participant. (For updation of Bank details in Folio)ix)   Form ISR-5 (Annexure C)x)    Form SH-13 or ISR-3xi)   Self-attested copy of PAN card of the legal heir(s) / claimant(s) issued by the Income Tax Department along with address proof.xii)	Copy of Birth Certificate (in case the nominee/claimant / legal heir is a minor).Where the Market value of securities is above Rs.5 lakhs as of the date of submission of complete documentation.List of Documents required to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    Copy of Death Certificate attested by Notary Public / Gazetted Officeriii)   Affidavit executed by all Legal Heirs (Annexure D)In case the legal heir(s) / claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities as mentioned in (iv) below, an affidavit from such legal heir(s) / claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient.iv)   Notarized copy of Succession Certificate / Probate of Will / Letters of Administration / Will / Legal Heirship Certificatev)    Form ISR-1 (applicable for non-KYC compliant folio)vi)   Form ISR-2vii)  Original Cancelled Cheque leaf or Client Master List copy duly attested by Depository Participant. (For updation of Bank details in Folio)viii) Form ISR-5 (Annexure C)ix)   Form SH-13 or ISR-3x)    In case where a Legal Heirship Certificate or its equivalent certificate issued by a competent government authority is submitted, the same shall be accompanied with –(a)  A notarized indemnity bond from the legal heir(s) / claimant(s) to whom the securities are transmitted; (Annexure E)(b)  No Objection from all non-claimants (remaining legal heir(s) relinquishing their rights, duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer (Annexure F) xi)   In case where Will is submitted, the same shall be accompanied with –(a)  Notarized indemnity bond from the legal heir(s) / claimant(s)to whom the securities are transmittedxii)  Copy of Birth Certificate (in case the nominee/claimant / legal heir is a minor).As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
+2023 Transmission of Securities -Demise of sole / all holders, where Nominee is Registered [SEP] In the event of the Demise of sole / all holders, where the Nominee is Registered. List of Documents required to be submitted:i)     Original security certificateii)    Copy of Death Certificate attested by Notary Public / Gazetted Officeriii)   Form ISR-1iv)   Form ISR-2v)    Original Cancelled Cheque leaf or Client Master List copy duly attested by Depository Participant. (For updation of Bank details in Folio)vi)   Form ISR-5 (Annexure C)vii)  Form SH-13 or ISR-3viii) Self-attested copy of PAN card of the nominee issued by the Income Tax Department.ix)   Copy of Birth Certificate (in case the nominee/claimant / legal heir is a minor). As part of enhanced due diligence, RTA / Issuer Company shall seek additional documents from the security holder(s) for processing any service request/complaint.
Claim of securities made by Legal Heir(s), What is the process? [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : ( Form ISR-5 ]  duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities whose value exceeds Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:The value shall be ascertained: on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission.__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with,:(i) Notarized Indemnity Bond- As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s); andï»¿(ii) No Objection from all the Non-Claimants (remaining legal heirs)- As per the format specified and provided in Annexure F:stating that they have relinquished their rights to claim for transmission of securities, duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer.For securities whose value does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) and the  documents as mentioned in point 9 are not available such as:__Read__more__ Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority.The legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer. Name and full address of the attesting authority for Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, notarial /court fee stamps and mention the registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization on Affidavit and Indemnity. Affidavit/Indemnity to be purchased in the name of holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed before the Notary Public/Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same. The Company shall issue a Letter of Credit upon successful execution of the above documents. For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant.
Claim by Legal Heir(s) for Value of Securities less than 5 Lakhs. [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : ( Form ISR-5  ]  duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities whose value does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) and the  documents as mentioned in point 9 are not available such as:__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority.The legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Claim by Legal Heir(s) for Value of Securities more than 5 Lakhs. [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : ( Form ISR-5 ] duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities exceeding Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:The value shall be ascertained: on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission.__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with,:(i) Notarized Indemnity Bond- As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s); andï»¿(ii) No Objection from all the Non-Claimants (remaining legal heirs)- As per the format specified and provided in Annexure F:stating that they have relinquished their rights to claim for transmission of securities, duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer.Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
If a successor is not able to provide either the succession certificate / Probate of the will / Letter of administration, then what is the way to get the securities [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : [ Form ISR-5 ] duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities exceeding Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:The value shall be ascertained: on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission.__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with,:(i) Notarized Indemnity Bond- As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s); andï»¿(ii) No Objection from all the Non-Claimants (remaining legal heirs)- As per the format specified and provided in Annexure F:stating that they have relinquished their rights to claim for transmission of securities, duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer.For securities whose value does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) and the  documents as mentioned in point 9 are not available such as:__Read__more__ Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority.The legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Important Points to remember for Claim by Legal Heir(s)/Claimants [SEP] IMPORTANT POINTS:1)  Legal Heir(s) / Claimant(s) shall submit Affidavit & Indemnity Bond in Non-Judicial Stamp Paper (NJS) of appropriate value. You may use the E-Stamping facility or Franking of Documents if the facility is available in your location.2)  Where the registered office of the Issuer Company is situated in the state of Maharashtra, the Indemnity Bond is to be submitted on NJS of Rs.500/- and Affidavit on NJS of Rs.100/-. 3)  For securities standing in joint names and where all the holders are deceased, legal documents (viz. Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Court Decree or Legal Heirship Certificate) for the holder, who is deceased last, is required to be submitted.4)  Attestation by Notary Public / Gazetted Officer should mention their name, full address, and registration number and affix their seal, Notarial Fee stamps, as applicable.Note: Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Transmission of securities in the name of Legal Heir(s). [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : [ Form ISR-5  ]  duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities exceeding Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:The value shall be ascertained: on the basis of the closing price at any one of the recognized stock exchanges a day prior to the date of submission.__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with,:(i) Notarized Indemnity Bond- As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s); andï»¿(ii) No Objection from all the Non-Claimants (remaining legal heirs)- As per the format specified and provided in Annexure F:stating that they have relinquished their rights to claim for transmission of securities, duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer.For securities whose value does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) and the  documents as mentioned in point 9 are not available such as:__Read__more__ Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority.The legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
-2023 PROCEDURE FOR NAME DELETION [SEP] A. DELETION OF NAMES OF THE DECEASED HOLDERS IN CASE OF DEATH OF 1ST/AND OR 2ND AND/OR 3RD HOLDER :1. Application Form for Name Deletion duly completed and signed by the surviving holder(s) as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company.2. Original death certificate or copy of death certificate:,attested by the survivor subject to verification with the original (only in case of in person verification) or copy of death certificate, duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer. Attestation by Notary Public / Gazetted Officer should mention their name, full address, registration number and affix their seal, Notarial Fee stamps, as applicable.3. Self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the surviving holder(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Duly completed Form ISR-1,Form SH-13 / Form ISR-3 and [Form ISR-4 ]  Note:Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
PROCEDURE FOR DELETION OF NAME ON DEATH OF A HOLDER OR TRANSMISSION OF SECURITIES TO SURVIVING HOLDERS [SEP] A. DELETION OF NAMES OF THE DECEASED HOLDERS IN CASE OF DEATH OF 1ST/AND OR 2ND AND/OR 3RD HOLDER :1. Application Form for Name Deletion duly completed and signed by the surviving holder(s) as per the specimen signature(s) recorded with the Company.2. Original death certificate or copy of death certificate:,attested by the survivor subject to verification with the original (only in case of in person verification) or copy of death certificate, duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer. Attestation by Notary Public / Gazetted Officer should mention their name, full address, registration number and affix their seal, Notarial Fee stamps, as applicable.3. Self-attested copy of the PAN Card of the surviving holder(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Duly completed Form ISR-1,Form SH-13 / Form ISR-3 and [Form ISR-4 ]  Note:Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Transmiission of Securities in the name of Legal Heirs OR Claim by Legal Heir(s) for Value of Securities less than 5 Lakhs. [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : ( Form ISR-5 ]  duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities whose value does not exceed Rupees Five lakhs(#) and the  documents as mentioned in point 9 are not available such as:__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority.The legal heir(s)/claimant(s) may submit the following documents:(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer.Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
Transmiission of Securities in the name of Legal Heirs OR Claim by Legal Heir(s) for Value of Securities more than 5 Lakhs. [SEP] Where securities are held in the sole/joint name(s) of the deceased holder(s), without nomination, please submit the following:-1. Transmission Request : [ Form ISR-5 ] duly signed by legal heir(s)/claimants.2. Original death certificate OR: copy of the death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original (only in case of in-person verification) OR a copy of the death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3. Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.4. Original security certificate(s).5. Original canceled cheque leaf which is issued in the name of the first legal heir/claimant or:latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first legal heir/claimant, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6. Nomination Form SH-13 or Declaration for opting out of Nomination as per Form ISR-3 signed by all the Legal heir(s) / Claimant(s).7. Client Master List (CML): of the Demat Account of the Legal Heirs(s) / claimant(s), if the applicants of the transmission request form have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8.  Affidavit (Annexure-D): A Notarized Affidavit from ALL legal heir(s) / claimant(s): made on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities. However, In case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in any of the documents for transmission of securities, such as Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letters of Administration or Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate), an Affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient). Separate Affidavits are to be executed by the legal heir(s) / claimant(s).For securities whose value exceeds Rupees Five lakhs(#) additional documents as stated in point 9 are to be provided:__Read__more__9. Copy of any of the following:a. Succession Certificate OR b. Probate of Will OR c. Will, along with a notarised indemnity bond from the legal heir(s)/claimant(s)  to whom the securities are to be transmitted, as per the format specified and provided in Annexure E OR d. Letters of Administration ORe. Court Decree OR f..Legal Heirship Certificate (or its equivalent certificate) issued by a competent Government Authority to be accompanied with.(i) No Objection Certificate in the format provided in Annexure F: made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, and is to be executed jointly by all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission; OR Copy of Family settlement deed executed by all the legal heir(s), duly attested by a Notary Public or by Gazetted Office; andï»¿(ii) Notarized Indemnity Bond-  As per the format provided in Annexure E:made on non-judicial Stamp Paper of appropriate value in the prescribed format, indemnifying the Listed entity /Share Transfer Agent. Bond of Indemnity is to be executed jointly by all the legal heir(s) including the claimant(s)Note:All Documents for transmission as may be applicable, duly attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are to be submitted, subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a gazetted officer. Name and full address of the attesting authority for the Indemnity bond and Affidavit must be mentioned. The attesting authority should affix their seal, notarial /court fee stamps, and mention registration number, as applicable. The Notary Public should mention Book No. and Serial No. against the notarization on Affidavit and Indemnity. Affidavit/Indemnity to be purchased in the name of holder(s)/applicant(s) and to be notarized and executed before the Notary Public/Gazetted Officer. The date of execution and attestation should be the same. The Company shall issue a Letter of Credit upon successful execution of the above documents. For securities held in electronic form, please contact your Depository Participant. 
What is an Affidavit? [SEP] The term Affidavit refers to a sworn statement in written format made especially under an oath or affirmation before an authorised officer or Magistrate.In other words, an Affidavit is a declaration of facts made in writing and sworn before a person having the authority to administer oath. All affidavits are verified statements and printed on Stamp papers of different denominations.All affidavits need to be drawn up in the first person and should contain facts and not inferences. A person who makes an affidavit is called a Deponent or an Affiant. The person who has authority to attest a certificate may be a Magistrate who may in turn be either a Judicial or an Executive Magistrate, a Notary Public or a Commissioner of Oaths depending upon the affidavit which needs to be attested. Indians living abroad can swear affidavits before Consular officers posted in Indian missions.
What is an Indemntity? [SEP] The concept of indemnity has to do with holding someone harmless, and a letter of indemnity outlines the specific measures that will be used to hold a party harmless.A letter of indemnity (LOI) is a contractual document that guarantees certain provisions will be met between two parties. Such letters are traditionally drafted by third-party institutions like banks or insurance companies, securities exchange board of India (SEBI), which agree to pay financial restitution to one of the parties, should the other party fail to live up to its obligations.In other words, the chief function of an LOI is to ensure that Party A won't ultimately suffer any losses if Party B falls delinquent.
What is NOC (No Objection Certificate)? [SEP] No Objection Certificate (NOC) is a legal document issued by legal heirs who have relinquished their claim over the securities of the deceased holder. It further states that the issuer of NOC has no objection to the mentioned details in the document.
Transmission of Securities in the Name(s) of Registered Nominee(s) [SEP] For securities held in physical form, please submit the following:-1.	Transmission Request ( Form ISR-5  ]  duly signed by all the Nominee(s) as per SEBI circular dated 18th May, 2022.2.	Original death certificate OR: a copy of death certificate attested by the nominee subject to verification with the original OR copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a Gazetted Officer.3.	Original security certificate(s).4.	Self-attested copy of PAN Card of the nominee(s), issued by the Income Tax Department.5.	Original canceled cheque leaf:which is issued in the name of the first Nominee OR the latest copy of the Bank Statement/Passbook with details of Bank Name, Branch, Account Number, and IFSC, of the first nominee, duly attested by the Bank Manager.6.	Nomination Form SH-13 or Form ISR-3:Declaration for opting out of Nomination signed by all the nominee(s)/Guardian; if the nominee is a minor.7. Client Master List (CML):of the Demat Account of the Nominee(s), if the Nominee(s) have a Demat account, provided by the Depository Participant, in order of the names as per the Form-ISR-5.8. Copy of Birth Certificate (in case nominee is a minor).9.	KYC of the Guardian (for nominee being a minor or of unsound mind).Note: Post-processing of the request, a Letter of Confirmation shall be issued to facilitate submission of the same with the Depository Participant for dematerialization in compliance with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022.
What is an Affidavit? [SEP] The term Affidavit refers to a sworn statement in written format made especially under an oath or affirmation before an authorised officer or Magistrate.In other words, an Affidavit is a declaration of facts made in writing and sworn before a person having the authority to administer oath. All affidavits are verified statements and printed on Stamp papers of different denominations.All affidavits need to be drawn up in the first person and should contain facts and not inferences. A person who makes an affidavit is called a Deponent or an Affiant. The person who has authority to attest a certificate may be a Magistrate who may in turn be either a Judicial or an Executive Magistrate, a Notary Public or a Commissioner of Oaths depending upon the affidavit which needs to be attested. Indians living abroad can swear affidavits before Consular officers posted in Indian missions.
What is an Indemnity? [SEP] The concept of indemnity has to do with holding someone harmless, and a letter of indemnity outlines the specific measures that will be used to hold a party harmless.A letter of indemnity (LOI) is a contractual document that guarantees certain provisions will be met between two parties. Such letters are traditionally drafted by third-party institutions like banks or insurance companies, securities exchange board of India (SEBI), which agree to pay financial restitution to one of the parties, should the other party fail to live up to its obligations.In other words, the chief function of an LOI is to ensure that Party A won't ultimately suffer any losses if Party B falls delinquent.
What is Form ISR-5? [SEP] Form ISR-5 form is meant to help investors in soliciting the following requests from the RTA/ Company.WHERE:Either of the holder(s) is deceased and Name Deletion is required.The Registered Nominee(s) wishes to claim the rights & title upon the demise of the sole/all holders of the securities.The Legal heir(s) / Executor of securities wishes to claim the rights & title upon the demise of the sole/all holders of the securities and where no nomination is registered in the folio. Read moreAfter processing the service request, the RTA shall issue a ˜Letter of Confirmation” to the claimant(s), which is valid only for 120 days. Using this ˜Letter of Confirmation”, the claimant shall request the DP to dematerialize the securities, failing which the securities shall be credited to the Suspense Escrow Demat Account of the Company. (SEDA)An important aspect of Form ISR-5 is that claimants will be able to claim all their benefits only in electronic form.
What is NOC (No Objection Certificate)? [SEP] No Objection Certificate (NOC) is a legal document issued by legal heirs who have relinquished their claim over the securities of the deceased holder. It further states that the issuer of NOC has no objection to the mentioned details in the document.
